A Palestinian woman holds a portrait of a relative killed, during a September 2010 march in Beirut commemorating the anniversary of the Sabra and Shatila massacre.Sharif Karim Reuters The US withdrawal from Afghanistan marks the end of the latest in a long list of disastrous American military interventions.A quick review of the past 50 years reveals a dismal pattern of American betrayal and lack of accountability leaving behind suffering and failed states.]]We are familiar with the US defeat in Vietnam and withdrawal from Saigon in 1975 but who remembers the chaos left behind in Laos or Cambodia? Or consider the Reagan administration’s interventions in Nicaragua, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras.Their legacy today is the children and families at our southern border who are refugees from Reagan’s policies – which included supporting genocidal death squads.]]We can add to the list various countries devastated and abandoned by the US across Western Asia and North Africa, including Libya, Iraq, Syria, Yemen and Lebanon.The list grows even longer when we add interventions in Africa, Central Asia, South America and the Caribbean.“The American-led fight against terror by military force and supporting authoritarian governments in the Middle East, Asia and Africa has ravaged the quality of governance and the lives of ordinary people,” journalist Rami G.Khouri wrote recently.]]That is putting it mildly.I saw this destructive pattern up close in May 1982, when I led a delegation of relief and development specialists to Lebanon.On 4 June we found ourselves under the US-funded Israeli bombing of Beirut, launching a war that killed at least 17,000 Palestinian and Lebanese civilians and wounded tens of thousands more.Israel followed with a ground invasion on 6 June.]]A week later, Israeli forces had occupied most of Lebanon and besieged its capital – ostensibly in order to rout the Palestine Liberation Organization that was then largely based in the country.]]A US-brokered ceasefire agreement reached in mid-August stipulated that the PLO had to withdraw its military and political personnel from Lebanon and Israel’s army would remain outside of Beirut.