The COVID-19 pandemic has been a death knell to so many industries in Afghanistan.Charities and aid agencies have even warned that the economic dislocation could spark widespread famine.]]But one sector is still booming: the illicit opium trade.Last year saw Afghan opium poppy cultivation grow by over a third while counter-narcotics operations dropped off a cliff.]]The country is said to be the source of over 90% of all the world’s illicit opium, from which heroin and other opioids are made.More land is under cultivation for opium in Afghanistan than is used for coca production across all of Latin America, with the creation of the drug said to directly employ around half a million people.]]This is a far cry from the 1970s, when poppy production was minimal, and largely for domestic consumption.But this changed in 1979 when the CIA launched Operation Cyclone, the widespread funding of Afghan Mujahideen militias in an attempt to bleed dry the then-recent Soviet invasion.]]Over the next decade, the CIA worked closely with its Pakistani counterpart, the ISI, to funnel $2 billion worth of arms and assistance to these groups, including the now infamous Osama Bin Laden and other warlords known for such atrocities as throwing acid in the faces of unveiled women.]]“From statements by U.S.Ambassador [to Iran] Richard Helms, there was little heroin production in Central Asia by the mid 1970s,” Professor Alfred McCoy, author of “The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade,” told MintPress.]]But with the start of the CIA secret war, opium production along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border surged and refineries soon dotted the landscape.Trucks loaded with U.S.taxpayer-funded weapons would travel from Pakistan into its neighbor to the west, returning filled to the brim with opium for the new refineries, their deadly product ending up on streets worldwide.]]With the influx of Afghan opium in the 1980s — Jeffrey St.Clair, co-author of “Whiteout: The CIA, Drugs and the Press,” alleges — heroin addiction more than doubled in the United States.]]“In order to finance the resistance for a protracted period, the Mujahideen had to come up with a livelihood beyond the weapons that the CIA was providing,” McCoy said, noting that the weapons issued could not feed the fighters’ families, nor reimburse them for lost labor: So what the resistance fighters did was they turned to opium.Afghanistan had about 100 tons of opium produced every year in the 1970s.By 1989-1990, at the end of that 10-year CIA operation, that minimal amount of opium — 100 tons per annum — had turned into a major amount, 2,000 tons a year, and was already about 75% of the world’s illicit opium trade.” ]]The CIA achieved its goal of giving the U.S.S.R.its Vietnam, the Soviets failing to quash the Mujahideen rebellion by the time they finally pulled out in 1989. But American money and weapons also turned Afghanistan into a dangerously unstable place full of warring factions that used opium to fund their battles for internal supremacy.]]By 1999, annual production had risen to 4,600 tons.The Taliban eventually emerged as the dominant force in the country and attempted to gain international legitimacy by stamping out the trade.In this, they were remarkably successful.A 2000 ban on opium cultivation by the Taliban-led government led to an almost overnight drop to just 185 tons harvested the following year, as frightened farmers chose not to risk attracting their wrath.]]The Taliban had hoped that the eradication program would win favor in Washington and entice the United States to provide humanitarian aid.But unfortunately, history had other ideas.On September 11, 2001, the U.S.]]experienced a massive case of blowback, as Bin Laden’s forces launched attacks on New York and Washington.The U.S.ignored the Taliban’s offer to hand him over to a third party, instead opting to invade the country.Less than a month after the planes hit the World Trade Center, U.S.troops were patrolling the fields of Afghanistan.]]