When the state assumes demand risks, it guarantees PPP investors a pre-agreed level of revenue, regardless of actual demand for the public service.Examples abound.]]When Kenya’s President, Uhuru Kenyatta, visited Macron in October 2020, the local Kenyan newspapers reported  this as an official visit to conclude several PPP agreements in water, energy and transport.]]One of these PPPs, the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau toll highway, will be constructed, financed and managed for 30 years by a consortium led by the French construction company Vinci and the French Asset Manager Meridiam fund.The Kenyan government guarantees ‘availability of traffic’ through a Toll Fund, approved by the Kenyan Parliament before Kenyatta’s trip to France.]]The Toll Fund compensates the private French consortium should Kenyan citizens and firms fail to generate sufficient toll revenue.Kenyans pay, either directly through the toll tax, or indirectly through taxes, via the Toll Fund.The Toll Fund is a fiscal instrument for ‘derisking’ French investments in Kenyan infrastructure.]]  In another example, the Nigerian Azura Power Plant,  the PPP template for ‘lighting up Africa’, had to be reimbursed from an emergency central bank loan  when, in 2018, the World Bank threatened to trigger the partial risk guarantee it had put in the project to reassure international investors.The PPP contract committed the state-owned Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading company to buy energy from Azura (and other private energy producers) well-beyond what the  energy infrastructure could absorb, leaving it structurally unable to recover costs from customers and pay Azura.]]As the central bank compensated Azura from funds destined to other private providers, those responded with a legal case against the Nigerian government and Azura.In turn, the World Bank conditioned the disbursement of a USD 1bn loan on Nigeria agreeing to a plan of structural reform in the energy sector  “critical for de-risking the sector for private investments ”.Blended finance, that is the use of public development finance from the World Bank to leverage private finance, doubled down as a disciplinary instrument to force restructuring (read privatization) of the Nigerian energy sector.]]Like its Nigerian counterpart, the Ghanaian government also embarked onto energy projects financed through PPPs.Its PPP contract for the exploitation of Sankofa offshore gas with ENI and VITOL involves a  “take or pay” clause that obliges the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation to purchase 90% of a predetermined quantity of gas, whether it can use it or not.Again, the World Bank Group  directed USD 1.2 billion into derisking the project:  a $500 million risk guarantee in case Ghana stops paying,  $300 million loan to VITOL and $217 million guarantee fund to protect the commercial banks involved – HSBC and Société Générale – against political risks.]]This, it boasted, would help “Ghana achieve energy security and […] meet commitments set in the 2015 Paris Agreement for climate mitigation”. Yet predictably,  Ghana’s ‘derisking as development’ strategy applied to the energy sector via take-or-pay contracts left it paying, according to IMF estimates , ‘about US$500 million annually for power generation capacity that it does not use’, and its energy sector a ‘significant fiscal risk’ for the budget.For comparison, Ghana’s health  budget for 2019 was roughly US$ 900 million. What followed since is a familiar story: rising external debt, cuts in public spending, especially on poverty reduction.The PPP promise hardwired into its strategy for new status of oil and gas producer turned out to create fiscal stringency and less developmental space .