The United States overthrow of the Grenada Revolution in 1983 initiated a vicious and unrelenting regime of neoliberalism that has gutted the Caribbean nation.But revolutionary Grenada showed the world a radical alternative to capitalism and neocolonialism is possible.]]  October 25th marks the 38th anniversary of Operation Urgent Fury -- the name given to the United States invasion of the Caribbean commonwealth of Grenada.]]Thanks to the efforts of 7,600 US troops and a flagrant violation of international law, Grenada was “rescued” from the horrors of communist dictatorship and certain economic collapse.]]This is the reason why October 25 is Grenada’s “Thanksgiving Day”, and similar to the better known Thanksgivings, it celebrates a myth.]]The truth is that the US invasion of Grenada and the liquidation of the People's Revolutionary Government (PRG) was a triumph of western imperialism and neoliberalism over a peoples' socialist experiment.With the collapse of the PRG’s socialist experiment, Grenada was thrown head first into the neoliberal era and a debt crisis, resulting in multiple rounds of structural adjustment that would eviscerate public spending and gut already-meagre social support networks.]]Similar to other Caribbean states, the government in Grenada is the predominant employer.When it was forced, through structural adjustment policies, to sell off public assets, structural, long term unemployment was the inevitable result.]]Emigration has since become characteristic of the island, as 71 percent of its secondary school and 85 percent of tertiary graduates have left the island.Not surprisingly the size of the Grenadian diaspora is estimated to be larger than the domestic population of 110,000 people.]] In 2019, prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, 32 percent of Grenada’s population lived in poverty (defined as less than $6 USD per day) - the highest poverty rate in the Eastern Caribbean.In 2020, the unemployment rate hit 48 percent, and 40 percent of the population were skipping meals due to the increasingly unaffordable prices of food.If this was not bad enough, Grenada also has the unfortunate distinction of being one of the most indebted nations in the world.The devastating cycle of austerity is expected to only worsen due to increased pressures from climate change and the pandemic.]]