Leonard Peltier, a  leader and activist in the American Indian Movement, has been in prison for 43 years as of 2020. Peltier participated in the AIM encampments on the Pine Ridge Reservation.]]In 1975 an FBI operation led to a confrontation in which two FBI agents died.In a COINTELPRO style operation, he was sentenced to life for murdering two FBI agents.Evidence exonerating Peltier was withheld by the FBI.]]In his appeal, the government admitted it had no evidence to show he killed the two FBI agents.]]Mumia Abu Jamal was arrested in 1981. In COINTELPRO style, he was arrested and sentenced to death in an unfair trial for the murder of a Philadelphia policeman.Mumia was an organizer and campaigner against police abuses in the African-American community, and was the President of the Association of Black Journalists.]]During his imprisonment he has published several books and other commentaries, notably Live from Death Row.See documentaries “Mumia Abu Jamal: A Case For Reasonable Doubt?” and “Mumia: Long Distance Revolutionary” or visit the Free Mumia or Millions for Mumia websites.]]Simón Trinidad, aka Ricardo Palmera, is a long-time leader of mass movements for social change, and was a top negotiator for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia-People’s Army (FARC-EP).He was arrested in 2004 in Ecuador in the process of negotiating with the UN for the release of FARC prisoners.He was then extradited to the U.S.on charges of narco-trafficking and kidnapping and subjected to four separate trials due to the difficulty the prosecution had in securing a conviction.]]A Colombian government spokesperson told the Alliance for Global Justice in April 2015 that the repatriation of Trinidad to Colombia is key to the success of the peace talks between FARC-EP and the Colombian Government.]]So far, the U.S.government has refused.]] Ivan Vargas is a citizen of Colombia and was a member of FARC.He was captured by Colombian forces and then extradited to the United States in violation of Colombia’s self-determination.He is incarcerated  here on bogus drug trafficking charges.]]His repatriation to Colombia is important to create the conditions for stable peace between FARC and the Colombian government.]]