Health workers in major public hospitals in Haiti continue to strike over bad working conditions, as others join them to protest a rise in gang violence and kidnappings.
This article was originally published in Peoples Dispatch .
Health workers in major public hospitals in Haiti have reasserted their intention to continue striking on 28 March, citing lack of action by the Ministry of Health (MoH) on their earlier demands.Nurses, physicians, lab workers and other health professionals at the Haitian State University Hospital and Justinien Hospital among other places, began to strike near the end of February.They intend to continue the action until demands are met.
The workers are asking for salary adjustments, improvements to working conditions, and payment of arrears in the form of debit cards, but remain dissatisfied by the approach taken by the Ministry since they first stopped working.While emergency care services have remained operational throughout the duration of the strike, delivery of other forms of care has significantly slowed down, increasing pressure on the MoH.
In spite of this, the authorities have mostly remained silent.Jean-Louis Jean Walbert, trade union delegate of the Union of Health Workers (STS), said to Radio Resistencia that the government had made no effort to engage with the striking workers since they began their action and that at the moment “there are no materials to work in the hospital, without taking into account the problem of electricity.” 
Previously, trade unions explained that the strikes in healthcare were not only oriented towards improving working conditions, but also securing a reform of the health system in Haiti, which has been struggling with lack of resources and the consequences of a wider social crisis for years.According to trade unions and health officials, public hospitals in particular had a hard time recovering from a residents’ strike in March 2016. While the strike ended with the promise of widespread improvements to the hospital system, such promises failed to materialise, leaving both health workers and patients to deal with deteriorating work and care conditions.
The economic crisis in 2018 weakened the health system even more , paving the way for inconsistent coverage of patients’ needs and a staggered pandemic response.From August 2021, when the first doses of COVID-19 vaccines were shipped to Haiti, to March 2022, only 1% of the population  of Haiti have been fully vaccinated.After the assassination of de-facto president Jovenel Moïse in July 2021 and a strong earthquake in August of the same year, the people of Haiti have been struggling against  rising levels of gang violence, fuel shortages, and food insecurity.Thousands of people have attempted to leave Haiti for the US in this period, but they have been stopped and deported  by the Biden administration, fueling the social crisis even more.