

A Palestinian young man has sustained critical injuries following a physical assault while being detained by Israeli soldiers during a night raid in the occupied West Bank.




The Palestinian Wafa news agency quoting local sources reported on Sunday that scores of Israeli soldiers at midnight broke into the house of Abdessalem Salhab in the village of Qilqis, south of al-Khalil (Hebron).

They assaulted the family members, especially Ahmad, who was later taken away to an undisclosed location.




The family was later informed that Ahmad, in his 20s, had been moved in critical health condition to Soroka Medical Center in the southern Israeli city of Beersheba.]]




Separately, Israeli forces and their undercover agents made a number of arrests after storming some neighborhoods across Ramallah.




The Israeli military frequently carries out wide-ranging arrest campaigns across the West Bank under the pretext of searching for “wanted” Palestinians.



Bloody dawn: Israeli forces kill 4 Palestinians in raid on West Bank Bloody dawn: Israeli forces kill 4 Palestinians in raid on West Bank Israeli forces storm the city of Jenin in the occupied West Bank, and shoot dead four Palestinians.




More than 7,000 Palestinians are reportedly held in Israeli jails.

Hundreds have been incarcerated under the practice of administrative detention, which allows holding Palestinian inmates in Israeli prisons without trial or charge.

Some Palestinian prisoners have even been held in administrative detention for up to eleven years.




Israel occupied East al-Quds, the West Bank, and the Gaza Strip during the Six Day War in 1967. It later had to withdraw from Gaza but has been occupying the other territories since.




On May 10, Israel's plans to force a number of Palestinian families out of their homes at the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood of East al-Quds and the regime's violent raids on worshipers at al-Aqsa Mosque prompted Palestinian retaliation that was followed by a brutal Israeli bombing campaign against the besieged Gaza Strip.

About 260 Palestinians were killed in the 11-day Israeli offensive.




Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses: