Organized “spontaneity” 
The protests in July were the largest and most significant on the island since the 1990s.

However, although they garnered widespread media attention and the support of celebrities, politicians, and even the president of the United States, they quickly fizzled out.

While presented as a spontaneous uprising against oppression, they were actually organized in a forum controlled by the Cuban American community in Florida.]]

The U.S.

government openly supported the protests in July.

This time, however, it is backing them even before they have started.




What is being attempted appears to be a Cuban-style color revolution — a Western-supported attempt at citizen-led regime change.

Perhaps the most prominent color revolution was the series of protests that toppled Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic in 2000. Protestors used non-violent tactics to flood the streets with people to overthrow the government.

It later transpired that the group credited with organizing the event, OTPOR, was on the U.S.

government payroll.

Since then, the group has been used by the U.S.

to train activists across the world in how to bring down governments of which Washington does not approve.]]




    Breaking through the Western Media Propaganda Coverage of Cuba Protests 
At first glance, the Biden administration’s position on Cuba seems to be a 180-degree change from that of Barack Obama, who moved towards normalizing relations with the Caribbean island.

However, Obama was essentially forced into doing so by united opposition across Latin America, which threatened to expel the U.S.]]

from regional bodies if it did not pursue that course.

Ten years later, many of those independent-minded governments have been overthrown (often with Washington’s help).

It is in this context that Biden’s continuation of the Trump-era sanctions makes more sense.

The sanctions have continually been declared illegal by the United Nations, which, in 2014, estimated that they had caused an estimated $1.1 trillion worth of damage.




It remains an open question as to how successful the upcoming action against the Cuban government will be.

But who is behind the protests is hardly in doubt.




Feature photo | U.S.

and Cuban flags hang from a wall with an old photo camera hung in between in Havana, Cuba, Monday, Jan.

11, 2021. Ramon Espinosa | AP 
Alan MacLeod is Senior Staff Writer for MintPress News.

After completing his PhD in 2017 he published two books: Bad News From Venezuela: Twenty Years of Fake News and Misreporting and Propaganda in the Information Age: Still Manufacturing Consent, as well as a number of academic articles.

He has also contributed to FAIR.org, The Guardian, Salon, The Grayzone, Jacobin Magazine, and Common Dreams.