When Trump was in office, the day to day inhumanity of Title 42 and the US empire’s approach to immigration took center stage.Masses of people outside of the so-called “Left”, people who had never understood themselves to be activists or particularly interested in social justice at all, were motivated to mobilize and take action to protest what they correctly understood as openly cruel policies and practices.We saw massive demonstrations at airports halting deportation flights, impassioned monologues from late night talk show hosts, breathless media coverage, undercover exposés, presidential candidates denouncing ‘kids in cages’, and members of the progressive Democratic caucus weeping in all white at the US-Mexico border.Though little was changed in practice, there was spectacle, outrage, momentum, and energy, a collective and righteous sense of empathy around the issue that took even longtime immigrant and refugee rights organizations by surprise. But then Joe Biden was elected.Biden was one of the presidential candidates who lamented the inhumanity of Title 42 and Trump’s immigration policies on the campaign trail.His platform, still visible on his campaign website , boasted that Biden would ‘take urgent action to undo Trump’s damage’ and ‘reassert America’s commitment to asylum-seekers and refugees.’ But when he actually did take office, his quickly issued executive order calling for a ‘moratorium’ on deportations, a campaign promise, was immediately undermined by an ICE plane flying Haitian babies  back to the island in early February 2021. Title 42 was the pretext.This practice has continued throughout Biden’s first term even after the Department of Homeland Security gave Haitian refugees what’s known as temporary protected status (TPS) in May of 2021. TPS was an acknowledgement that conditions in Haiti, again a direct consequence of US (and UN and CORE group) imperialist intervention in that nation, were unsafe for them to return to.]]But the deportations did not stop.By January 2022 the Biden administration was deporting hundreds of Africans back to Haiti every month, had reopened a child detention center  in Florida, and was defending its right to use Title 42  and a number of other Trump era immigration policies in federal court.His campaign promises had been broken.Under Biden, however, we see no mass demonstrations, no crocodile tears, no exposés, no monologues.The planes chartered for the sole purpose of deportation, filled with African refugees bound with chains, fly out of airports throughout the United States in the quiet of the night with little to no media coverage.Immigrant and refugee rights organizations are still organizing, still fighting, still mobilizing, but most people in the US no longer have any idea of what’s going on.What changed? 