This picture taken on October 9, 2021 shows a view of the funeral hall building in Yemen's capital SanaÅfa which was hit in 2016 in a Saudi airstrike.(Photo by AFP) 
A member of the negotiating team of the Yemeni National Salvation Government has denounced the recent upsurge in the Saudi-led coalitionÅfs airstrikes against residential neighborhoods across Yemen, vowing that the attacks will not go unanswered.]] 
    ÅgThe crimes of enemies will not go unpunished, and members of the coalition of aggression will pay a hefty price for their acts.The hysteria of the [Saudi-led] alliance and its decision to raise the ante against civilians is a clear proof of its military defeat,Åh YemenÅfs al-Masirah television network quoted Abdul-Malik Al-Hajri as saying on Monday.]] 
He added, ÅgNeither do we count on the United Nations and the Security Council, nor the international community.We rely on our armed forces.Åh 
The remarks came a day after an unnamed official at the Yemeni Foreign Ministry said Saudi Arabia has failed to obtain any of its aggressive and sinister objectives in Yemen, hailing the steadfastness of the Yemeni nation, their belief in their just cause, and their total rejection of foreign interference.Yemen: Saudi peace plan Åeimmature,Åf includes ÅeunrealisticÅf demands Yemen: Saudi peace plan Åeimmature,Åf includes ÅeunrealisticÅf demands A Yemeni official dismisses as ÅgimmatureÅh Saudi ArabiaÅfs so-called peace initiative for the conflict-stricken Arab country, saying it includes ÅgunrealisticÅh demands.
ÅgThe Saudi-led coalitionÅfs failure to achieve its malicious goals has resulted in confusion of the alliance member states.They sometimes try to mislead the international community through alleged support for a peaceful political solution to Yemen conflict, and at other times threaten to launch fresh military strikes,Åh the official told Saba news agency.]] 
He also lambasted the policy of starvation pursued by the Saudi war coalition against Yemeni, stressing that the practice aggravates the repercussions of the ongoing humanitarian catastrophe in the country as ships loaded with oil derivatives, natural gas, and foodstuff are not allowed to unload their consignments at the port of Hudaydah.]] 
While SanaÅfa can respond to the excesses of the Riyadh and Abu Dhabi regimes at an appropriate time and place, it still adheres to the principle of just and honorable peace for Yemeni people, the Yemeni Foreign Ministry official pointed out.
It will not, however, accept the continuation of the Saudi war and comprehensive siege through which the alliance is seeking to falsely portray the Yemen crisis as nothing but an internal conflict, the official added.]] 
He also highlighted that all evidence attests to the fact that what is happening in Yemen is a direct and clear act of aggression from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates against Yemen and its people.NGO's pressure UN to renew Yemen panel's mandate NGO's pressure UN to renew Yemen panel's mandate More than 60 NGO 
Saudi Arabia, backed by the United States and regional allies, launched the war on Yemen in March 2015, with the goal of bringing the government of fugitive former Yemeni President Abd Rabbuh Mansour Hadi back to power and crushing the popular Ansarullah resistance movement.
The war has left hundreds of thousands of Yemenis dead, and displaced millions more.It has also destroyed YemenÅfs infrastructure and spread famine and infectious diseases there.
Despite heavily-armed Saudi ArabiaÅfs incessant bombardment of the impoverished country, the Yemeni armed forces and the Popular Committees have grown steadily in strength against the Saudi-led invaders and left Riyadh and its allies bogged down in the country.
Press TVÅfs website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses: