AG: Well, it's interesting to see the Washington Post , the  New York Times , and Politico  praising the German Greens after portraying the U S Greens as the devil for so long—the devil who gave us Bush and Trump.The Times wrote, “Germany’s Greens are expected to be a critical part of any new government.But these are not the Greens of old.Today it is a pragmatic party promising an assertive stance abroad.” 
DJ: Of course, that proves the point that the American Greens are still faithful to their principles and critical of US wars.So of course they're the devil, but German Greens echo the American foreign policy line, and the Washington Post and New York Times just love them for it. 
AG: I think this is going to be bad news here, where some Greens were actually trying to find a little hope in the polls indicating that the German Greens might come out on top in the German federal election.
DJ: Frankly,I hope they don't because they are the most dangerous when it comes to foreign relations.This woman—Annalena Baerbock—she has no real political past.She's 40 years old, and she hasn't even been in the party very long.She has very little experience, but she's well trained in American and NATO foreign policy.And she has been rapidly shoved to the top of the party, becoming a candidate for Chancellor simply on the basis of that.So in fact, people who are really on the left in Germany consider her and the German Green Party extremely dangerous.They’re most likely to stumble us into a major war between world powers.
Diana Johnstone is the author of Fool’s Crusade: Yugoslavia, NATO and Western Delusions , Circle in the Darkness: Memoir of a World Watcher , Queen of Chaos: The Misadventures of Hillary Clinton , and many articles published in In These Times, Counterpunch, Consortium News and other outlets.From 1990 to 1996, she was the press secretary of the Green Group in the European Parliament.
Ann Garrison is an independent journalist based in the San Francisco Bay Area.In 2014, she received the Victoire Ingabire Umuhoza Democracy and Peace Prize  for her reporting on conflict in the African Great Lakes region.Please help support her work on Patreon .She can be reached at ann-at-anngarrison.com.