Three natons share the same water, but not the same foreign connections, which makes for a dangerous mix.“Russia is rumored to be helping Ethiopia guard the dam.”.]]The Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) is the largest hydroelectric power project in Africa, and the seventh largest in the world.Despite internal conflict in its Tigray state, external threat, and long-running international disputes about sharing Nile waters, the dam is expected to begin producing power later this year.]]It promises to lift Ethiopia's subsistence farming majority from poverty, generate electricity for sale to neighboring nations, and make Ethiopia a regional powerhouse.  However, the dam is under heavy military guard due to a 10-year dispute with Sudan and Egypt over rights to the Blue Nile River, which flows downstream from Ethiopia's Lake Tana to Sudan, Egypt and the Mediterranean.]]Seventy-five percent of the Nile that flows into Egypt comes from the Blue Nile, and only 25% from the White Nile, which flows from headwaters in the African Great Lakes Region of East and Central Africa.  The US and the EU have most often taken Egypt’s side against Ethiopia in disputes over the GERD, and in one of President Trump's last reckless moments in office, he said that Egypt wouldn’t be able to live with the dam, so they’ll blow it up , but it’s hard to imagine that Egypt would attempt such an attack without a green light from the US.]]  At the time, the Ethiopian Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying, "The incitement of war between Ethiopia and Egypt from a sitting US president neither reflects the longstanding partnership and strategic alliance between Ethiopia and the United States nor is acceptable in international law governing interstate relations.".]]“The dam promises to lift Ethiopia's subsistence farming majority from poverty, generate electricity for sale to neighboring nations, and make Ethiopia a regional powerhouse. Russia and China have most often sided with Ethiopia about the GERD, and China is heavily invested in its electricity delivery infrastructure.]]The $4.6 billion dam itself has been financed by taxes and bonds issued to Ethiopians and the Ethiopian diaspora.  Russia is rumored to be helping Ethiopia guard the dam, and on July 7, 2021, Russia and Ethiopia inked a new military cooperation agreement .On March 28, 2021, China and Ethiopia signed “an agreement to protect investment projects .”.China has significant investments  in all three nations involved in this particular dispute over Nile waters.]] Russia and France have been claiming a share of the Egyptian weapons market previously held by the US since 2015,  a development that National Defense News recently identified as a national security issue .  Last week, the UN Security Council met to consider a draft resolution  put forth by Egypt and Sudan that would call on Ethiopia to halt the second seasonal filling of the dam.]] Everyone who spoke during the meeting called for a return to African Union negotiations despite a 10-year impasse, but the Western ambassadors were more sympathetic to Egypt and Sudan, the Russian ambassador was more sympathetic to Ethiopia, and the Chinese ambassador appeared to be attempting to remain neutral. Egypt and Sudan both emphasized the importance of the issue to them by sending their foreign ministers to speak instead of leaving that to their ambassadors, while Ethiopia sent their Minister of Water and Irrigation.Here are a few of their remarks:]]