Of course, the richest man in the world, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, is a master at coming up with new ways to subjugate workers.]]Any reports of job growth should be viewed with a very jaundiced eye as predatory capitalism has driven down wages and created a dystopia for workers.]]Bezos has mastered squeezing the most and giving the least. “Capitalists have grown richer precisely because they have forced workers to live in a constant state of precarity.” Amazon warehouse workers suffer from injuries  at higher rates than other employees in similar jobs but the injuries are part of the cost of doing business.]]It is expected that the grueling]] working conditions will create high turnover  which is exactly what Amazon wants.A revolving door of employees serves their needs quite nicely.Bezos made a big deal about a $15 per hour starting salary but he could certainly afford to pay a lot more, a real living wage.The tight-fisted billionaire who could potentially become a trillionaire got rich the old fashioned way.]]He cheats workers.Bezos also comes up with new and ingenious ways to spread the suffering.Amazon Flex   delivery drivers are hired by apps and fired by algorithms.They have no interaction with human resources or any humans at all and they must pay a $200 fee to contest terminations that are rarely decided in their favor.]] Even when American workers lose their jobs they are still at the mercy of corporate giants.ID.me  contracts with states to provide public access to web sites such as those used for unemployment claims.Their facial recognition  software doesn’t verify everyone properly and desperate people wait days and weeks for their unemployment payments to arrive.As with Amazon there is no one to speak to for help.]]But state governments turn over millions of dollars to ID.me in order to cheat people out of benefits they have earned.Currently 30 states contract with ID.me to make sure that the most vulnerable are kicked while they are down.]]