Tunisia's top judge 		has accused President Kais Saied of 				undermining the judiciary's independence 		by dissolving a top judicial council. Speaking in the first public reaction, 				the Supreme Judicial Council’s head, 		Youssef Bouzakher, said 				Saied’s declaration represented an attempt 		to bring judges under presidential instruction.“The president’s decision is illegal and a direct assimilation of the presidency,” 		he was quoted by media outlets as saying.Saied earlier in the day dissolved a top judicial council 		overseeing the independent performance of the country's judges.Saied, who took power 				with the promise of reforms, 				said on Sunday that the Supreme Judicial Council was 				a “thing of the past.” He accused members of the council 				of taking “billions” in bribes.He also accused 		council members of delaying politically sensitive investigations, 				including a probe into the assassinations of left-wing activists in 2013.“In this council, 				positions and appointments are sold according to loyalties.Their place is not the place 		where they sit now, but where the accused stand,” 		the president said, adding, 				“You cannot imagine the money 				that certain judges have been able to receive, billions and billions.” 		Kais Saied’s decision caps months of his sharp criticism of Tunisia’s judges 				and raises fears about judicial independence.Last month, the president revoked all financial privileges for members of the Supreme Judicial Council, 				which was tasked with ensuring the independence of the judiciary, 				disciplining judges and granting them professional promotions.Several hundred people protested 		against the council on Sunday outside its headquarters, 				a rally encouraged by Saied.Unlike during a protest against the president in January, 		police only erected barriers but did not confront demonstrators.Last month, police fired water cannons and beat protesters with sticks 		to break up an opposition protest.The Supreme Judicial Council’s dissolution coincides 				with the ninth anniversary of the assassination of Chokri Belaid, 				who was an opposition leader with the left-secular Democratic Patriots' Movement.Since seizing power, Saied has dissolved the parliament and sacked the government, 		dismissing several ministers and top officials as part of reforms.The call for demonstrations comes 				despite a government ban on all rallies 		following growing opposition to what his critics see as power-grabbing moves.The former university professor expert on constitutional law, 				Saied rose to power in October 2019, pledging to combat corruption.However, opponents have expressed fear of a slide 				back to the authoritarianism seen under long-time ruler Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses: 