New York City protest, Novembe 21, 2021. (Photo: Eduardo Munoz/Reuters) 
The essential human need to give and receive empathy is often manipulated by corporate media, who act on behalf of the state and the ruling class.




This article was originally published in Hood Communist .




Empathy, the ability to understand and share the feelings of other beings, is present in some form in most living things on Earth.

Scientists theorize that empathy developed as an evolutionary strategy to build stronger bonds among animals that depend on cooperation for survival.

In one particular kind of animal, humans, empathy is clear evidence that the claim spread by the ruling class, that each of us is fundamentally cruel, self-interested, and greedy is nothing more than an attempt to naturalize the individualism and antisocial behavior that best serves their exploitative interests.]]

In its purest form empathy is a net positive for us on a planet where for the last several hundred years the genocidal system of capitalism-imperialism has normalized massive daily violence happening against a backdrop of apathy and ignorance.

Empathy’s endurance among us says that a better and more just way of living is possible despite our current conditions and that the (re)building of that way of living is within our capacity.

However, empathy, like almost every aspect of the psyche when we are disorganized and unconscious, can be weaponized and manipulated by that same genocidal global system.]]

We are witnessing this today on a grand scale.

 
Since president Joe Biden’s inauguration in January 2021, over twenty thousand people  – among them unaccompanied infants, parents and caretakers without their children, and queer and trans people fleeing repression  – have been deported by the US Department of Homeland Security, back to the desperate conditions of the failed state created and maintained by Western imperialism in Haiti.

Over two-thirds of those people have been expelled under the questionable legal basis of Title 42 , a racist and xenophobic Trump era policy crafted by notable ghoul Stephen Miller.

Title 42 claims that expelling the refugees created by capitalism-imperialism (without giving them access to due process, opportunity to make a claim for asylum , or appeal) is somehow an essential part of controlling the spread of COVID-19 in the United States.

One major problem with this claim is the fact that the spread of COVID-19 has never, at any point since the start of the pandemic, been under control in the United States .

The other major problem is that from the inception of the Title 42 policy, public health experts have pointed out that it has no scientific basis whatsoever and is explicitly anti-refugee by design, with some describing it as ‘medical gerrymandering.’   Public health experts have also pointed out that the barbaric decades old US government policy of warehousing capitalism-imperialism’s refugees in concentration camps without access to vaccines, medical care, or even facilities to maintain basic hygiene prior to expelling them is itself a serious obstacle to the control of COVID-19  in the US.]]

