Setting a precedent 
Meng Wanzhou, a Chinese national doing business in Canada, is under arrest for “bank fraud” and is fighting extradition to the U.S.North Korean Mun Chol Myong has already been extradited to the U.S.from Malaysia on similar charges to those used against Saab for doing business according to international law rather than abiding by the U.S.’ illegal measures.
In short, Saab’s is not an isolated case of U.S.misconduct around enforcing its illegal sanctions but an emerging pattern.Any one of us working on getting needed goods to a U.S.-sanctioned country is at risk of the U.S.pushing to get us arrested and jailed in some country we pass through that is subservient to the U.S.
That the U.S.can engineer the arrest of a diplomat – someone who has immunity by international law even in the time of war – is a dangerous precedent.That the arrest was extraterritorial is worse, especially because Saab is an ambassador to the African Union.This harkens back to the flagrantly illegal and inhumane U.S.practice of extraordinary rendition used to populate the Guantánamo torture chambers.
The award-winning movie The Mauritanian is about the true story of crusading lawyer Nancy Hollander, who successfully freed a tortured innocent man from the made-in-the-USA hell of Guantánamo.The Hollander character, played in the movie by Jodie Foster, says: “I am not just defending him, I am defending the rule of law.” 
The real-life Nancy Hollander attended the webinar.A lawyer’s delegation to Cabo Verde in solidarity with Saab is being planned, and a petition campaign on his behalf is underway.These efforts recognize that the defense of Alex Saab is a defense of the rule of international law against illegal U.S.sanctions (#FREEAlexSaab).
Feature photo | Graffiti near a shop in Caracas calling for the release of Alex Saab, with the hashtag #Freealexsaab.Photo | Alamy 
Roger D.Harris is with the human rights organization Task Force on the Americas