The heroin trade implicated virtually everyone in power, including Afghan President Hamid Karzai’s brother Ahmed Wali, among the biggest and most notorious drug kingpins in the south of the country, a man widely understood to be in the pay of the CIA.U.S.attempts to stymie the opium trade, such as the policy of paying domestic militias to destroy poppy fields, often backfired.Locals came up with ways of profiting, such as refraining from planting in one area, collecting large sums of money from occupying forces, and using that cash to plant elsewhere — effectively getting paid both to plant and not to plant.Even worse, local warlords and drug bosses would destroy their rivals’ crops and collect money from the U.S.for doing so, leaving themselves both enriched and in a stronger position than before, having gained NATO forces’ favor.One notable example of this is local strongman Gul Agha Sherzai, who eradicated his competitors’ crops in Nangarhar Province (while quietly leaving his own in Kandahar Province untouched).But all the U.S.saw was a local politician seemingly committed to stamping out an illegal drug trade.They therefore showered him with money and other privileges.“We literally gave the guy $10 million in cash for rubbing out his competition,” Hoh said.“If you were going to write a movie about this, they’d say ‘This is too far fetched.No one is going to believe this.]]Nothing is this insane or stupid.’ But that is the way it is.” McCoy noted that the Taliban was one of the prime beneficiaries of the drug trade, and used it to increase their power and vanquish the U.S.: That booming opium production, and the U.S.failure to curb it, provided the bulk of the financing for Taliban, who captured a significant but unknown share of the local profits from the drug traffic, which they used to fund guerrilla operations over the past 20 years, becoming a determinative factor in the U.S.defeat in Afghanistan.” ‘The needle and the damage done’ It is not particularly difficult to grow opium.Opium poppies flourish in warm and dry conditions, away from the damp and the wind.Consequently, they have found a fertile home across much of central and western Asia.]]The plant has flourished in Afghanistan, particularly in southern provinces like Helmand, close to the tripoint where Afghanistan meets Pakistan and Iran.Much of the irrigation system in Helmand was underwritten by USAID, an organization that acts as the CIA’s public-facing front.In full bloom, the poppy fields look spectacular, with beautiful flowers of vibrant pink, red or white.]]Underneath the flowers, one can find a large seed pod.Farmers harvest these, draining them of a sap which dries into a resin.This is often transported out of the country through the so-called “Southern Route” via Pakistan or Iran.But, as with any pipeline, much of the product is spilled along the way, causing an epidemic of addiction across the region.]]The effect on the Afghan population has been nothing short of a disaster.Between 2005 and 2015, the number of adult drug users jumped from 900,000 to 2.4 million, according to the United Nations, which estimates that almost one in three households are directly affected by addiction.]]While Afghanistan also produces copious amounts of marijuana and methamphetamine, opioids are the drug of choice for most, with around 9% of the adult population (and a growing number of children) addicted to them.Added to this has been a spike in HIV cases, as users share needles, Professor Julien Mercille, author of “Cruel Harvest: U.S.Intervention in the Afghan Drug Trade,” told MintPress.Only contributing further to the despair has been 20 years of war and U.S.]]occupation.The number of Afghans living in poverty rose from 9.1 million in 2007 to 19.3 million in 2016. A recent poll conducted by Gallup found that Afghans are the saddest people on Earth, with nearly nine in ten respondents “suffering” and zero percent of the population “thriving,” in their own words.]]When asked to rate their lives out of a score of ten, Afghans gave an average answer of 2.7, a record low for any country studied.Worse still, when asked to predict the quality of their life in five years, the mean answer was even lower: 2.3.