The decision by Russian Embassy in Iran, led by Ambassador Levan Dzhagaryan, to tweet a re-staging of one of the most iconic images of WWII – the picture of Stalin, Churchill, and Roosevelt at the Tehran Conference in 1943 – in conjunction with the newly-installed head of Britain’s diplomatic mission in Iran, ]]Simon Shercliff, has been met with justifiable anger.In having his picture taken on the same chairs in front of the same venue, alongside his UK counterpart, then tweeting it out, the Russian Iran Ambassador is guilty of shockingly poor judgement.]]At best the picture, the message it conveys, is highly insensitive, and at worst deeply insulting at a time when the Iranian people are suffering under the weight of unprecedented sanctions, including those imposed by the UK.]]The official history of WWII frames the Tehran Conference between November 28 and December 1, 1943, as a historic meeting between the leaders of the so-called Grand Alliance – US President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and Soviet Premier Joseph Stalin – ]] with the objective of coordinating their military strategy against Germany and Japan at a critical point in the war, and also to discuss various matters with the post war era in mind.What the official history of this event conspicuously abstracts is the fact that Tehran, as it is now, was then the capital of a sovereign nation, which at the time was under occupation by British and Soviet military forces.]]Iran had declared its neutrality at the start of the war, but this neutrality was ignored and an Anglo-Soviet invasion of the country was mounted in August 1941; this in service to their respective strategic objectives vis-à-vis the war with Germany.At the time, Iran was ruled by Reza Shah.He was forced under pressure from the British and Soviets to abdicate, after which his replacement, his son Muhammad Reza Pahlavi, signed a Tripartite Treaty of Alliance with Britain and the Soviet Union in 1942. It was an alliance in name only, designed to legitimise the country’s occupation.]]The point is that the world back then was run on the basis of great-power chauvinism and that WWII, just like its WWI, was in the last analysis a war for empire and colonial possessions, with Iran one of many countries drawn into the war against its will, and occupied in violation of its sovereignty.The Iran of today is unrecognisable compared to the Iran of yesterday.It has, since 1979, placed an unshakeable premium on its independence and sovereignty, refusing to bow to those who yearn for the days when the country was but a doormat in the eyes of imperialist countries led by the likes of Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin.Its stance when it comes to the ongoing negotiations taking place in Vienna over the JCPOA, and its resistance to US hegemony and Israeli expansionism in the region overall, leaves no doubt of it.