A Palestinian man has died in an Israeli prison facility, days after he was taken into custody over driving offenses, with his family saying he was brutally beaten shortly before death.Abdo Youssef al-Khatib al-Tamimi, from the Shu’fat camp in the West Bank, had been arrested by Israeli forces last Sunday over a traffic violation and taken later to in the al-Maskobiya prison in occupied al-Quds, Palestinian Safa press agency reported on Thursday.The circumstances surrounding Tamimi’s death remain unclear.]]Israeli police claimed the victim, a father of four, had suffered a heart attack, but his family said Tamimi, 43, had been brutally beaten moments before his death.]]Haaretz reported that Tamimi’s had demanded an autopsy in the presence of a Palestinian doctor to determine the cause of the death.The Palestinian Authority’s Prisoners Affairs Commission spokesman Hassan Abd Rabbo held the Israeli regime’s prison administration responsible for Tamimi’s death.The Tel Aviv regime has been heavily criticized for its extensive use of lethal force against Palestinians who do not pose an immediate threat to the occupation forces or to the settlers.11 Palestinian prisoners exhausted from hunger strike Meanwhile, Abd Rabbo said on Thursday that as Palestinian prisoners are still continuing their hunger strike protesting Israel’s so-called administrative detention policy, signs of weariness and exhaustion have begun to show on 11 inmates after 7-10 days and they have also begun to suffer from weight loss.He added that these protests aim to shed the light on the administrative detention policy that “affects close to 450 prisoners in Israeli prisons.” In a report on July 18, the Addameer Prisoner Support and Human Rights Association said that Israeli authorities are holding 4,850 Palestinians in the regime’s jails, including 225 children and 41 women.The figure also includes 540 administrative prisoners, the report said.The so-called administrative detention is a sort of imprisonment without trial or charge that allows Israel to incarcerate Palestinians for up to six months, extendable an infinite number of times.Some Palestinian prisoners have been held in administrative detention for up to 11 years.Palestinian inmates regularly stage hunger strike in protest at the administrative detention policy and harsh conditions in Israeli jails.Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses: