Syrian firefighters work at the scene of an Israeli missile attack against the port of the coastal city of Latakia, Syria, on December 28, 2021. (Photo by Syrian Arab News Agency) 
The Lebanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants has condemned in the strongest terms the latest Israeli missile strike against Syria’s strategic western port of Latakia, saying the attack once again exposed the true nature of the Tel Aviv regime.
“The attack, which came during the holidays and was the second in less than a month, once again exposes Israel's true face,” the ministry was quoted by Lebanon’s official National News Agency as saying.
The ministry then reaffirmed Beirut’s support for “the Syrian Arab Republic and the brotherly Syrian people, who are suffering from the most terrible crisis in their modern history," and wished them "peace and prosperity.” 
Early on Tuesday morning, Israeli warplanes fired a number of missiles at the port of Latakia.It was the second Israeli strike in a month on the key facility following the attack on December 7.
Syria’s official news agency SANA, citing an unnamed military official, said several missiles struck the container area in the port, setting some of them on fire.He said the strikes caused “massive material damage.” 
There were no immediate reports of casualties in the attack, which activated Syrian air defenses, according to SANA.
The state-run al-Ikhbariyah Syria television news network ran footage showing flames and smoke rising from the terminal.
It reported damage to nearby residential buildings, a hospital, shops and some tourist sites near the port.
Syria has been gripped by foreign-backed militancy since March 2011. The Syrian government says the Israeli regime and its Western and regional allies are aiding Takfiri terrorist groups that are wreaking havoc in the country.
Israel frequently targets military positions inside Syria, especially those of the resistance movement Hezbollah which has played a key role in helping the Syrian army in its fight against the foreign-backed terrorists.

The Tel Aviv regime mostly keeps quiet about its attacks on Syrian territories which many view as knee-jerk reaction to Syrian government’s increasing success in confronting terrorism.
Israel has been a main supporter of terrorist groups that have opposed the government of President Bashar al-Assad since foreign-backed militancy erupted in Syria.
Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses: