Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Hassan Shoukry: All that Egypt has called for and sought is a binding agreement that includes an insurance policy against the harmful impacts of the GERD on Egypt's water security, by designing a mechanism through which our three countries could cooperate to collectively bear the burden of addressing future periods of droughts. Unfortunately, however, Ethiopia remains steadfast in its rejection of any form of agreement that provides any meaningful measure of protection to the interests of downstream states.]]For us, the harm that the GERD might inflict will affect every aspect of the lives of the Egyptian people like a malignant plague.In the absence of an agreement that regulates its filling and operation, the GERD can cause cumulative water shortages in Egypt amounting to 120 billion cubic meters.]] It will diminish access to clean drinking water.It could deprive millions of farmers of the water they used to irrigate their fields.It will rob countless families of their income and livelihood.It will destroy 1000s of acres of arable land.It will increase desertification and degrade the riparian ecosystem, and it will increase vulnerability to the effects of climate change.This is a situation that Egypt cannot and will not tolerate.]] Sudanese Foreign Minister Mariam Al-Sadiq Al-Mahdi: We dearly hope that the Council will assume its responsibilities in maintaining regional peace and security in a preventative way by strengthening stepping up negotiations under the auspices of the African Union.I should like to say, unequivocally, that this issue is a just cause.You are called, ladies and gentlemen, to promote a process which continues to meet obstacles, and you can help this process easily, freely, by freeing the courageous people of Sudan from their current suffering by ensuring that the filling and functioning of the Renaissance Dam happens pursuant to a legally binding agreement.]]However, silence from the Council would send out the wrong message and would signify a tacit approval of the fact that this unilateral filling was acceptable. Ethiopian Minister of Water, Irrigation, and Energy Dr.Sileshi Bekele: Mr.President, colonialism and colonial treaties thwarted Africa's ability to utilize its natural resources for the benefit of its people.The Nile Basin countries have recognized this problem and worked towards addressing it.In 1999, we established the Nile Basin Initiative, and in 2010, we adopted the Cooperative Framework Agreement, or CFA, on the Nile after 13 years of negotiations.]]The insatiable demands of Egypt and most recently Sudan are not mostly about the issue of the GERD but about the future development projects in Ethiopia and the other riparian countries.]]Without an effective CFA and regional mechanism, similar application will inevitably come to this Council.Today it is Ethiopia’s dam; tomorrow it will be any one of the Nile Basin countries.]] The Nile belongs to all the people of the Basin countries, all the half a billion of us in the 11 riparian countries, and the water is enough for all of us.In this regard, we urge our Egyptian and Sudanese brothers and sisters to understand that a resolution to the Nile issue will not come from the Security Council.]]It can only come from good-faith negotiations, with due care for the well-being and development of each other.As Ethiopia looks forward to continuing the AU-led, trilateral negotiations on the GERD, we have the solution at hand, and we can herald the good news to the world led by concluding a mutually acceptable outcome.]] Finally, Mr.President, allow me to respectfully request the Council to return this matter to the ability and the legitimate leadership of the African Union and encourage Egypt and Sudan to seriously and faithfully negotiate towards a negotiated settlement on the first filling, and on all operations of the GERD.]]