The Afro-Europe Axis: planting budgetary time bombs in Africa 
PPPs are long-term contractual arrangements through which the private sector commits to finance and manage public services – hospitals, highways, renewable energy plants, student accommodation, water and sewage etc – as long as the state shares the risks.]]

For governments, this is an attractive arrangement because they do not need to provide funding for infrastructure projects upfront.

States with significant infrastructure deficits and limited public resources, the argument goes, could delegate the execution of public service missions to the private sector without increasing their indebtedness.]]

States need to assume some of the risks – that is, to derisk investments – but such derisking commitments do not count as public spending until and unless risks materialise.




In France, PPPs have long been denounced, including by the French court of Auditors (see here , here  and here ), for being more expensive than direct public investments, for worsening poverty, access and inequality.]]

The French Senate described PPPs as a “budgetary time bomb “, then joined by the European Court of Auditors .]]




All these warnings, however, have not dampened the French government’s zeal to champion PPPs in Africa.

For instance, the ‘Initiative  France-Banque Mondiale’, promoted by the French Development Agency and its network of financial partners in the Franc zone countries in Africa, puts PPPs at the core of efforts to reinvigorate the French economic presence that is on a declining slope in the former French colonies  and also to further extend it to the rest of Africa .




This vision of ‘development as derisking’, codified in the rhetoric of coalitions of the  Afro-European Axis, traps African states and their citizenry into the monolithic rationale of subsidising profit accumulation for  European companies and asset managers.]]

  
First, African countries’ turn to derisking may contribute to increasing sovereign debt in foreign currency.

Take Senegal’s toll highway from the capital Dakar  to the new airport (also financed through PPP), awarded in a 30-year PPP contract to the French group Eiffage.

The Senegalese government borrowed around EUR 137 million directly from the African Development Bank and France (via the French Development Agency, the AFD) ‘to provide the investment subsidy grant ’ to Eiffage and to finance the resettlement and restructuring of urban areas affected.

 
Second, African citizens will have to pay user fees to make development projects bankable.

The method for calculating fees is a black box where the private PPP operators have significant power.

Take again the Senegal toll highway.

 According to a recent study  by LEGS-Africa, a Senegalese civil society organisation, for a distance of 72 km, Senegalese users pay approximately 4.5 euros to use what the French press calls the “highway of the future” .]]

In Morocco, users of the Casablanca-Rabat highway pay 2 euros for a distance of 87 kilometers.

In Côte d’Ivoire, users of the Abidjan-Yamoussoukro tollbooth pay 3.8 euros for a 250 km trip.




Third, development as derisking means African states must commit public resources where user fees are not enough to generate the predicted cash flows for PPP investors.

African states assume demand risk, political/contractual risks and currency risks, hidden in the PPP contracts that receive little if any public scrutiny.