As several contributors to Hood Communist have explained  over the last few years, the attack on Ukraine’s sovereignty did not begin with Russia’s military intervention in February 2022. Ukraine has actually been the target of two separate US-backed color revolutions targeting the same democratically elected but-too-friendly-to-Russia-for-the-West’s-liking president Viktor Yanukovych, in less than two decades.The first, in 2004, was known as the Orange Revolution and was led by a so-called ‘grassroots’ youth movement with a slick media campaign almost entirely developed by the US .Its outcome was the overturning of the results of the 2004 election and the ascension of Viktor Yushchenko, an opposition leader who pushed European Union and NATO membership for Ukraine as well as the imposition of IMF structural adjustment programs.
The second US-backed overturning of Ukraine’s democratic process happened in 2014, and it saw US and NATO powers forming an unholy alliance with the literal neo-Nazis and fascists  who comprised the vanguard of the Euromaidan movement  that would force Ukrainian president Yanukovych out of office for the second time.Those neo-Nazis and fascists, with first political  and then military backing  from the US and NATO nations, engaged in acts of extreme organized violence, like the Maiden massacre, that quickly saw them dominate formerly peaceful protests and develop power far beyond their relatively small representation within the Ukrainian population.When Yanukovych was ultimately deposed in an unconstitutional impeachment process  pushed along by the United States, the government that was formed in his wake had many representatives of Ukraine’s far right in key positions .Arseniy Yatseniuk, the heir apparently identified in a leaked conversation  between current US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland and then US ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pratt, became Ukraine’s new prime minister.Again, the push became NATO and EU membership for Ukraine and the newly formed US-backed far right wing government wasted no time applying the economy-tanking neoliberal austerity measures  demanded by the International Monetary Fund in exchange for a $20 billion loan.The Neo-nazis and fascists used their moment in the electoral sun to consolidate their power.They leveraged their relationship with the head of Ukraine’s Ministry of the Interior  to officially integrate neo-Nazi paramilitary gangs like the Azov battalion  into the Ukrainian army, won key positions within the security state as well as local and regional political offices, formed massive militias like the National Corps that were deputized to patrol Ukraine’s streets alongside police , and institutionalized Holocaust denial and the national glorification  of Nazi collaborators like Stefan Bandera.The result of this economic and political devastation in Ukraine has been mass terror and a civil war that has claimed the lives of over 14,000 people in the 8 years since, all a direct consequence of US and NATO intervention.