The world’s first true narco-state The effect of the occupation was to expand drug production to unprecedented new proportions, Afghanistan becoming, in Professor McCoy’s estimation, the world’s first true narco-state.]]McCoy notes that by 2008, opium was responsible for well over half of the country’s gross domestic product.By comparison, even in Colombia’s darkest days, cocaine accounted for only 3% of its GDP.Today, the United Nations estimates that around 6,300 tons of opium (and rising) is produced yearly, with 224,000 hectares — an area almost the size of Rhode Island — planted with poppy fields.But even while it was financing a widespread and deadly aerial spraying campaign in Colombia, the United States refused to countenance the same policy in Afghanistan.“We cannot be in a situation where we remove the only source of income of people who live in the second poorest country in the world without being able to provide them with an alternative,” said NATO spokesman James Appathurai.]]Not everyone agreed, however, that a passionate commitment to defending the quality of life of the poorest was the actual reason for rejecting the policy.Matthew Hoh, a former captain in the U.S.Marine Corps is one skeptic.Hoh told MintPress that airborne fumigation was not carried out because it would be outside the control of Afghan government officials, who were deeply implicated in the drug trade, owning poppy fields and production plants themselves.“They were afraid that, if they went to aerial eradication, the U.S.pilots would just eradicate willy nilly and a lot of their own poppy fields would be hit.” In 2009, Hoh resigned in protest from his position at the State Department in Zabul Province over the government’s continued occupation of Afghanistan.]]He told MintPress: NATO forces were more or less guarding poppy fields and poppy production, under the guise of counterinsurgency.The logic was ‘we don’t want to take away the livelihoods of the people.’ But really, what we were doing at that point was protecting the wealth of our friends in power in Afghanistan.]]“ According to Hoh, there was widespread disillusionment within the military among service members who had to risk their lives on a day to day basis.“What are we doing here? This is bullshit,” was a common sentiment among the rank and file.