A group of Palestinians, demanding reunification with their families, protest against Israeli apartheid policies across the occupied territories (File photo by Wafa news agency) 
In another hostile action against Palestinians, Israel has denied Palestinians their family reunification right, 

	confirming recent charges by rights groups 
	that Israel acts as an apartheid regime against the Palestinians.




Palestinian media, 
	quoting sources reported  on Sunday that right-wing Israeli minister of interior, Eyelet Shaked, 
	
	was pushing her administration to support a law 
		that bans Palestinians from the occupied territories 
		married to Palestinians living inside Israel 
		from uniting with their spouses and families.




Shaked, 
	a staunch opponent of uniting Palestinian families further said 
	that the law will be brought again before the Knesset (parliament) on Wednesday for a vote, 
	expecting that lawmakers were going this time to uphold the ban.]]




In July last year, 
	the Israeli Knesset, voted 
	not to renew the law, 
	which came up every year since 2003 for a vote and was constantly upheld.

 

The move had opened the way for thousands of Palestinians 
	who applied over the years to be unified with their families inside Israel 
	
	or in the occupied East al-Quds to demand a review of their application.




However, Shaked, in her capacity as interior minister, 

		has refused to consider any application 
		since the law was repealed in July.

 
The latest developments also come days 

		after an international rights group said in a recent report 
		
		that Israeli authorities must be held accountable 
		
		for enforcing a system of oppression and domination against Palestinians.




Released on Tuesday, the 280-page report details 
		how Israeli authorities enforce a system of oppression and domination against the Palestinians.




Israel is carrying out 
		“the crime of apartheid against Palestinians” 
		
		and must be held accountable for treating them as “an inferior racial group.” 

The report lists a range of Israeli abuses, including 
		extensive seizures of Palestinian land and property, 
		unlawful killings, 
		forcible transfer, 
		drastic movement restrictions, 
		administrative detention and 
		the denial of nationality and citizenship to Palestinians.





The group in a separate statement described these 
		as components of a system 
		
		that amounts to apartheid under international law.

“This system is maintained by violations 

		which the group found to constitute apartheid 
		as a crime against humanity.” 

Last year, more than 600 scholars, artists, and intellectuals from over 45 countries across the world  
		lambasted the Israeli practices against Palestinians, 
		
		calling for an immediate end to “Israel’s apartheid regime” in the occupied territories.




Back in July 2018, Israel’s parliament (Knesset) adopted 

		a controversial bill 
		
		that declares the occupying entity as the so-called “nation-state of the Jewish people.” 
		
The law prioritizes “Jewish” values over democratic ones in the occupied territories, 

		declares Jerusalem al-Quds the “capital” of Israel, 
		
		allows Jewish-only communities, 
		
		sets Hebrew as the official language of Israel, 
		
		and relegates Arabic from an official language to one with “special status.” 
		
Observers blame US-led Western powers 

		for enabling Israel's violations against Palestinians.




Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses: 