The effects of the CIA operation to bleed the Soviets dry in Afghanistan have also produced a humanitarian crisis in neighboring Pakistan.]]As McCoy noted, in the late 1970s, Pakistan had barely any heroin addicts.But by 1985, Pakistani government statistics reported over 1.2 million, turning the two nations into “the global epicenter of the drugs trade” almost overnight.]]The problem has only grown since.A 2013 U.N.report estimated that almost 7 million Pakistanis use drugs, with 4.25 million requiring urgent treatment for dependency issues.Nearly 2.5 million of these people were abusing heroin or other opioids.Around 700 people die every day from overdoses.The highest rate of dependency is, unsurprisingly, in provinces on the Afghan border where heroin is manufactured.The same U.N.study notes that 11% of people in the northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa use illicit substances — primarily heroin.The drug crisis, of course, is also a medical crisis, with overstretched public hospitals filled with drugs-related maladies.]]The social stigma of addiction has ripped families apart while the money and power illicit drugs have brought has turned many towns into hotspots of violence.Iran has a similar number of opioid users, generally estimated at between two and three million.In towns close to the Afghan/Pakistani border, a gram of opium can be bought with loose change — between a quarter and fifty cents.]]Thus, despite the extremely harsh penalties for drug possession and distribution on the official books, the country has the highest addiction rate in the world On a micro level, addiction tears apart families and ruins lives.]]On an international scale, however, the opium boom has placed an entire region under significant strain.Therefore, one consequence of U.S.policy in the Middle East — from supporting jihadists to occupying nations — has been to unleash a worldwide opium addiction that has made a few people fantastically wealthy and destroyed the lives of tens of millions.]]Domestic despair The boom in production has also led to a worldwide disaster.In the past decade, opioid-related deaths increased by 71% globally, according to the United Nations.Much of the product grown by Afghan warlords ends up on Western streets.“I don’t see how it can be a coincidence that you have that explosive growth in poppy production in Afghanistan and then you have the worldwide opioid epidemic,” Hoh stated, a connection that raises the question of whether users in Berlin, Boston, or Brazil should be seen as victims of the war in Afghanistan as much as fallen soldiers are.]]If so, the numbers would be staggering.Nearly 841,000 Americans have died of a drug overdose since the war in Afghanistan began, including more than 70,000 in 2019 alone.The majority of these have involved opioids.Officially, the DEA claims that essentially all illicit opioids entering the U.S.are grown in Latin America.Hoh, however, finds this unconvincing.“When you look at their own information and their reports on the illicit opioid production hectarage in Mexico and South America, it is clear that there is not enough production in the Western hemisphere to meet the demand for illicit opiates in the U.S.,” he told MintPress.]]  A dirty history The U.S.government has a long history of directly involving itself with the worldwide narcotics trade.In Colombia, it worked with President Alvaro Uribe on a nationwide drug war, even as internal U.S.documents identified Uribe as one of the nation’s most important drug traffickers, an employee of the infamous Medellin Cartel and a “close personal friend” of drugs kingpin Pablo Escobar.Profits from drug-running funded Uribe’s election runs in 2002 and 2006.General Manuel Noriega was also a key ally of the U.S.For many years, the Panamanian was on the CIA payroll — despite Washington knowing he was involved in drug trafficking since at least 1972. When he became de facto dictator of Panama in 1984, little changed.But the director of the Drug Enforcement Agency initially praised him for his “vigorous anti-drug trafficking policy.” Eventually, however, the U.S.]]decided to invade the country and capture Noriega, sentencing him to 40 years in federal prison for drug crimes largely committed while he was still in the CIA’s pay.At the same time as this was going on, investigative journalist Gary Webb exposed how the CIA helped fund its dirty war against Nicaragua’s leftist government through sales of crack cocaine to black neighborhoods across the United States, linking far-right paramilitary armies with U.S.drug kingpins like Rick Ross.x