The surge of attention to the Israeli occupation is unimaginable without last year’s “George Floyd” protests.
“In many ways, the change we are witnessing now has been a long time coming.” 
In 1993, the Palestinian intellectual Edward Said, observed , “everyone knows that to try to say something in the mainstream Western media that is critical of U.S.policy or Israel is extremely difficult; conversely, to say things that are hostile to the Arabs as a people and culture, or Islam as a religion, is laughably easy.” 
If you are only just tuning in, you might find these words hard to believe.Amid the surge of violence across Israel and Palestine in recent weeks—first triggered by the Israeli military’s brutal response to Palestinian protests over a threatened neighborhood in East Jerusalem—there has also been a surge in attention to the asymmetry inherent in this conflict .U.S.social media has been filled with critiques of the illegal Israeli occupation and accounts of the disproportionate use of force being meted out against civilians in the Gaza Strip in retaliation to rockets fired into Israel by Hamas.Teen Vogue even weighed in with op-eds calling for the end of the occupation  of Palestine and an article  relating Israeli human rights violations to American policing.
Friends who have always been silent on Palestine are speaking out for the first time and politicians like New York City mayoral candidate Andrew Yang are being forced to publicly walk back their unwavering  support of Israel amid vocal criticism.While it’s hard to prove definitively, I suspect this change owes a debt to Black Lives Matter organizing and the response to George Floyd’s killing almost exactly one year ago.
As someone who grew up Palestinian in the United States in the 1990s and 2000s, this change in tone is remarkable.My family and I have long felt the impotence captured in Said’s words, of the laughable ease with which Palestine’s suffering was dismissed and its people vilified.From my privileged position on the sidelines, I recall periods of rupture, like the second intifada beginning in 2000 or the 2008 war on Gaza, through the maddening feeling of watching in disbelief as people being bombed and bloodied by a powerful state apparatus were simultaneously being dismissed as the “bad guys.” As friends and family on the ground in Palestine defended their right to live and move freely, in the U.S., we found ourselves continually defending their right to this defense.