 Hip hop artist, campaigner and host of the MintPress podcast “The Watchdog,” Lowkey is at the center of a storm of controversy that has reached as high as Prime Minister Boris Johnson himself.On Wednesday, the prime minister was asked about it in parliament and said that British universities have “for far too long been tolerant of casual or indeed systematic antisemitism,” adding that he “hope[s] that everybody understands the need for rapid, and indeed irreversible change,” before announcing that the United Kingdom needed a new antisemitism task force “devoted to rooting out” the problem at all levels of the education system – comments that suggest that the entire pro-Palestine student movement is under threat.]]Johnson’s words came in response to a series of incidents involving Lowkey this month.First, pressure from a local branch of the Union of Jewish Students (UJS) forced the University of Cambridge to postpone his March 8 Zoom talk, “The Israel Lobby’s War Against You,” which was, ironically, going to expose the UJS’s (among other groups) financial, ideological and material ties to the government of Israel.]]In emails sent to the rapper, the Cambridge University Palestine Solidarity Society, which organized the event, warned that their very existence was “threatened on an institutional level” from above if they were to go ahead with the event as planned.After much negotiation, the talk did eventually go ahead one week later, on March 15 on Zoom, as the college could not rubber-stamp his presence on campus.More consequentially, pressure, lies and smears from the UJS and a wide range of pro-Israel groups and figures have succeeded in stopping Lowkey from speaking and performing at the annual National Union of Students Conference in Liverpool.UJS President Nina Freedman demanded his cancellation, claiming his presence was “simply unacceptable.” The Campaign Against Antisemitism expressed their “outrage” at the news he would be there, noting that the rapper has claimed that Israel is a racist state — an assertion backed by Amnesty International in a recent report on Israeli Apartheid — and supported pro-Palestine academics like David Miller and politicians like former Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn.This, for them, was proof enough of his bad intentions.The Board of Deputies of British Jews made similar remarks, claiming they were “disturbed” by Lowkey’s presence.The British press also tried to drum up public outrage.Far-right tabloid The Daily Mail strongly implied Lowkey was antisemitic.A scandalized Daily Telegraph also told readers that he had once described Israel as a “racist endeavour.” This, presumably, was meant to be proof of his antisemitism.The Jewish Chronicle quoted one individual claiming that inviting Lowkey was “sickening hypocrisy.” Meanwhile, even during a time of war, global pandemic and endemic poverty and inequality, LBC Radio found the time to devote two segments to the matter.