The day of the accidentOn October 11, 2015, Israa was driving home to Jerusalem from Jericho when her car caught fire nearly a mile from the Al-Z’ayyem checkpoint in East Jerusalem.The Israeli version of events accuses Israa of terrorism.Israel’s military prosecution even used some of Israa’s Facebook posts to validate allegations of “her having nationalistic motives for killing Israelis.” But Mona counters these claims, providing a very different narrative of that fateful day.]]Before reaching the checkpoint, Israa entered a lane reserved for emergency vehicles and public transportation and pulled her car onto the side of the road, Mona told MintPress, continuing:    A [policeman] approached and told Israa, ‘You can’t park your car here.’ She responded that ‘There is a very bad smell.It’s bothering me so much inside the car and I can’t sit inside.’ He warned her again, but Israa said, ‘No, I’m not going back to the car, I’m just standing outside.I’m calling the police to come over right now.’ So he pushed her into the car and locked the driver door.A few moments later, the car started to burn.She was screaming to open the door, ‘I can’t breathe!’ By the time the police arrived, she lost her fingers and skin.”]]            The off-duty policeman was Sergeant Major Moshe Chen, a traffic cop on his way home from work when he spotted Israa.Israa’s family tried to file a case against Chen, but the police never granted them that option.Instead, the family was forced to pay the off-duty sergeant 5,000 shekels, or around $1,560, for his recoveryMona said the fire was the result of liquid spilling from the driver’s seat airbag and causing the entire driver’s side to burst into flames.She added the police first declared the incident an accident but when a Shabak (Israeli internal security agency) officer arrived, it was labeled a terrorist attack.Mona told MintPress that Israa’s lawyer disputed the terrorist allegations, describing how the car remained intact.“The lawyer said, ‘If she’s trying to blow up the car, then for sure the glass will be broken at least, but the glass is still there,” Mona said.Israa was arrested the same day as the car accident and taken to Hadassah Ein Kerem Hospital in Jerusalem for treatment.She was transferred to al-Ramlah Prison Hospital in Ramlah, located northwest of Jerusalem, then to the HaSharon female prison in the central town of Even Yehuda.After her sentencing, she was moved to Damon Prison in the north, where she is currently being held.