The work of Frantz Fanon guides anti-imperialist thought and action 60 years after his death.This article originally appeared in Toward Freedom .  Editor’s Note: The following is the writer’s analysis.​​“The master’s room was wide open.The master’s room was brilliantly lit, and the master was there, very calm… and our people stopped dead… it was the master… I went in.“It’s you,” he said, very calm.]]It was I, even I, and I told him so, the good slave, the faithful slave, the slave of slaves, and suddenly his eyes were like two cockroaches, frightened in the rainy season… I struck, and the blood spurted; that is the only baptism that I remember today.” —Aimé Césaire Today marks the 60th anniversary of the passing of one of the greatest thinkers to have emerged from the ranks of the oppressed, Frantz Fanon (1925-1961).Fanon’s contributions are timeless.As long as white supremacy and neocolonialism remain in the driver’s seat of human relations, Fanon’s thought will continue to arm the colonized in the Battle of Ideas.]]The Radicalization of Fanon Born and raised in what is still France’s Caribbean island colony of Martinique, Fanon was exposed to and shaped by the everyday class and race relations that characterized the island in the early 20th century.Forced to join a segregated column of Black troops, he fought in World War II.Upon continuing his studies in post-war France, he came face to face with the racism that dominates the European world.]]In his first book, Black Skin, White Masks (1952), Fanon reflects ​​on coming of age in a world, where, “For the black man there is only one destiny.And it is white.” At the time of publication, Fanon had just turned 27.]]In 1953, the Martiniquais psychiatrist was assigned  to Algeria, where he treated patients who were severely traumatized by the violence French colonialism had spun into motion.He met Dr.Pierre Chaulet, a French doctor who secretly treated members of the guerrilla resistance, Front de Libération Nationale (FLN), who had survived torture and captivity.“Viscerally close to his patients whom he regarded as primarily victims of the system he was fighting,” Fanon immediately became a cadre of the Algerian Revolution.1 By 1956, Fanon’s consciousness no longer allowed him to oversee operations at Blida Hospital in Algeria.]]In an influential resignation letter that moved many on the left, he wrote: “There comes a time when silence becomes dishonesty.The ruling intentions of personal existence are not in accord with the permanent assaults on the most commonplace values.For many months my conscience has been the seat of unpardonable debates.And the conclusion is the determination not to despair of man, in other words, of myself.]]The decision I have reached is that I cannot continue to bear a responsibility at no matter what cost, on the false pretext that there is nothing else to be done.”