This is why it defies belief that a Russian ambassador would allow himself to be pictured with a British official like two colonial masters lording it over a subject people, particularly just after a new administration has taken office in Tehran.]]Russia and Iran have enjoyed favourable, if not close, relations in recent years.Syria is, of course, where both countries have worked in tandem to defend the Assad government and neutralise the terrorist threat that has existed there for the past decade.There is, however, understandable distrust in Tehran when it comes to Moscow’s actions in trying to be a friend to everyone, including Iran’s enemies, in the region or with a regional agenda, up to and including the US.This distrust conforms to the dictum that he who tries to befriend everyone is a friend to no one.]]In response to the furore whipped up by the photo-op in Tehran with the Russian ambassador and the chief of Britain’s diplomatic station in the country, the Russian Embassy in Iran issued the following statement via Twitter: “Taking into account the ambiguous reaction to our photo, we would like to note that it does not have any anti-Iranian context.We were not going to offend the feelings of the friendly Iranian people.The only meaning that this photo has to pay tribute to the joint efforts of the allied states against Nazism during the Second World War.Iran is our friend and neighbor, and we will continue to strengthen relations based on mutual respect.” ]]Rather than issue such a convoluted response, perhaps it might have been simpler, and certainly better, to issue an apology and take the offending tweet down.You just know that this incident and the ensuing fallout will be music to the ears of London.The UK political establishment has gone out of its way to downplay the role of the Soviet Union in crushing Nazi Germany in WWII, while enhancing its own role in that cause.]]The idea that a British official would agree to such a picture without an ulterior motive is simply not credible.Indeed, it’s more than likely that the re-staging of this image was done at the suggestion of Mr.Shercliff in the first place.]]In response to the offending image and tweet, Iran’s Foreign Minister, Javad Zarif, tweeted thus: “I saw an extremely inappropriate picture today.Need I remind all that Aug.2021 is neither Aug.1941 nor Dec.1943. ]] The Iranian people have shown – including during the JCPOA talks – that their destiny can NEVER be subject to decisions in foreign embassies or by foreign powers.” Ambassador Dzhagaryan and Ambassador Shercliff, kindly take note.  John Wight is an author and political commentator based in Scotland.(The views expressed in this article do not necessarily reflect those of Press TV.)