The pressure on fiscal resources can be significant where original PPP costs are wildly underestimated.Take another of Macron’s PPP pet projects, the “Abidjan metro “, whose construction site he inaugurated alongside his Ivorian counterpart Alassane Ouattara in 2017. Initially, the Ivorian government awarded the concession contract to a South Korean-French consortium, but then asked the South Korean companies to exit, and, with support from a French government loan, signed a new agreement with French companies only .]]Indeed, it is a condition of the French Treasury that its concessional  loans to low-income countries must be 70% implemented by French companies, as opposed to 50% for non-concessional ones.Then, in 2020, the Ivorian government decided to transform the PPP into a public contract  with the French companies, so that the costs of the project fall exclusively on the African government.]]‘The most ambitious mass transit project in sub-Saharan Africa’  is now projected to cost at least 10 times as much as originally estimated by the National Office of Technical Studies and Development (BNETD) of Côte d’Ivoire in 2002. The Ivorian government will have to make up for the difference, either by higher ticket prices or by subsidising ticket costs.]]As Pierre Laurent, the Vice-President of the French Senate put it  in a question to the French government  on November 25, 2020, this  ‘white elephant’ is forced upon ‘an Ivorian power weakened in particular by a lack of democratic legitimacy resulting from an unconstitutional re-election of the outgoing President of the Republic’.He recommended its burial as soon as possible ‘in order not to prolong a policy of plundering African countries, which has lasted too long’.But the range of risks assumed by African states goes further.The LEGS-Africa  study documents that the Senegalese government bears all the financial costs of a possible termination of the contract in the PPP for the toll highway mentioned above.More shockingly, the private French operator is entitled to substantial compensation if the termination of the contract results from a breach of its contractual obligations.In addition to the many urban and environmental problems caused by the construction of this highway, the study suggests that the Senegalese state also provides indirect subsidies via tax and duty exemptions for the PPP operator and its subcontractors.