Still, history is FULL of examples that demonstrate people’s movements are the only hope for humanity to come out of any crisis, climate change included.The global working class movement inspired by the Russian Revolution literally set a standard of social welfare and security throughout the so-called “developed” world amid a period of war and economic depression.The Black liberation movement created an example of people’s democracy in the United States until its destruction beginning in the 1970s.Social Security, Medicare, the right to form a union, and many other key staples of what is left of the welfare state are byproducts of social movements, mainly led by communists, which pressured the power structure during times of crisis to enact reforms or face a revolutionary situation.Liberals have always struggled to shed their dual loyalties to the establishment and it shows in the marginalization of movement politics in Don’t Look Up.
Perhaps even more indicative of Don’t Look Up’s liberalism is its cynical depiction of global politics.Russia, China, and India only respond to the planetary crisis when the U.S.cuts them out of a deal to mine the comet’s precious resources.The film references a “President Qi” of China (a not so subtle jab at Chinese President Xi Jinping) who is said to have communicated to the world the failed attempt by the BASH corporation to push the comet off its trajectory by, er, using drones to plunder it of resources.China and other major powers are thus portrayed as no better than the United States.U.S.elites represent the only hope for humanity—a clear ideological concession to American exceptionalism.
The facts in real life tell a different story.Take China, for example.China is a world leader in renewable energy and is set to become carbon neutral by 2060, the fastest path to carbon neutrality of any major power in history.There is no political faction in China that denies climate change and Chinese officials have been forthright in cooperating with the U.S.on climate issues despite facing innumerable hostilities.China finds itself surrounded by more than fifty percent of the U.S.’s military, one of the biggest polluters on the planet , and sanctioned economically and diplomatically.This includes sanctions on a major solar producer in Xinjiang on questionable human rights claims, a policy that directly hampers the world from addressing the climate crisis.