To help her reclaim Lifta, AlBajeh took a small piece of the village’s remains during her visit.She collected a broken tile painted with traditional designs from one of the house’s floors, knowing this might be the last physical object she can have of Lifta.]]“Lifta is a witness of what happened during the Nakba,” AlBajeh said, explaining: We have this connection as Palestinians, and when we see the cactus plants, we connect this as evidence that displacement happened here.And if you go to Lifta, you’ll see the huge amount of cactus.So even if the houses remain and [Israel] tries to remove the cactus, it’s still painful… It’s not about the stones or about the trees.It’s about the whole identity of Lifta and the Palestinian history, which we still connect to.“   ‘We were kings in our village’ Odeh’s memories paint Lifta as an idyllic place, an oasis carved into the steep slopes of Jerusalem where life was carefree and bountiful.“We were kings in our village,” Odeh said.“Everything we need, we had — a life so simple.We didn’t need cinema or computers, no, everything we needed came from our land.” But the minute Odeh and his family became refugees, their resources became scarce.“At that time there were no charitable associations or agencies ready to help,” Odeh recalled.“You know what Nakba means? Nakba does not mean to destroy homes.No, Nakba means to destroy the life — economic life, social life, educational life, political life.They destroyed our life.” Upon reminiscing about Lifta, Odeh said his dream is to go back home: I miss my childhood.Palestinian children have lost their childhood life to play like children, to go to the theater, to concerts, to football.No, until now we have house demolitions, we have arrests, we have land confiscation and killings.Every day we have events like these — if not my family, my neighborhood.” Feature photo | A group of Israeli settlers in Lifta take a photo of a group of Palestinian children raising a painting of the Palestinian flag.Liebe Blekh | MintPress News 