French bullying of Africa has been driven entirely by self-interest and greed.]]“The longstanding imperialists’ efforts to shoot and bomb their way into domination of devastated regions is a manifestation of clueless arrogance and a failure to consider Africa’s realities.” ]]France has thrown its military weight around in Africa for years, but recently, in the wake of troop casualties, and with the prospect of more soldier deaths, French imperialist punks have signaled their plan to withdraw more than 2,000 troops from the continent.]]France began “Operation Barkhane” in 2013, supposedly to rid the Sahel region of al-Qaeda cells and sympathizers.However, resistance to the military campaign has left about 55 French soldiers dead.]]French President Emmanuel Macron said: “Many of our soldiers have fallen, I have a thought for their families.We owe them consistency, clarity.” When it comes to Africa, France has always been both consistent and clear about its plan to dominate and exploit.]]Also, while other western powers, including the U.S.have participated in neo-colonial projects, French efforts have included an extra dose of nasty.]]For example, as colonialism breathed its last gasps in 1958, France arrogantly strong-armed most of its African colonies into relationships designed to perpetuate the colonial model in a different form.]]When, by referendum, Guinea alone stood tall and strong for true independence and rejected the French proposal, France threw a tantrum.Author Elizabeth Schmidt wrote: “France retaliated with a vengeance.]]Even before the vote, France began its withdrawal, sabotaging archives, infrastructure and the economy.After the referendum, France attempted to isolate Guinea diplomatically, economically and militarily.” ]]“French efforts have included an extra dose of nasty.” The bullying of Africa has been driven entirely by self-interest and greed.In more recent years, and as just one example, the French military presence in Niger has been for the purpose of protecting French uranium mines, notwithstanding claims the mission’s focus is anti-terrorism.]] For its own exploitative purposes, in 2014 the U.S.chose to become militarily involved in Mali and other countries in the region.In response, a French Special Forces officer said: “The Americans want to get involved in Africa.That’s good for us.We know that with the Americans it will be more efficient.We use American logistics – that’s what we are missing.On the other hand, we provide the local knowledge.” U.S.involvement may have been good for France, but ultimately it proved costly for the U.S.In 2017, four U.S.soldiers were killed in Niger, and the public reaction was so strong that the U.S.was forced to substantially reduce its troop presence in Africa.Nevertheless, then as in preceding years, the imperialist imperative demanded alternative approaches to the domination of Africa.In the case of Niger, the U.S.intensified and expanded its use of armed drones.Notwithstanding the devastation generally caused by French and U.S.military operations in Africa, a crime that left Africa reeling, and from which it has not yet recovered, was the depraved, barbaric assassination of Moammar Gadhafi and the destruction of Libya in 2011. U.S.Africa Command (AFRICOM) and France armed anti-Black and other reactionary forces in Libya which carried out a protracted process of genocide and mass destruction that culminated in a mob’s use of a bayonet to murder Gadhafi by rectal disembowelment.Unlike many imperialist operations of this kind where we are left to connect the dots, we have damning evidence of the motive.