Palestinians go on general strike on Feb.9, 2022 in West Bank cities in protest to the assassination of three youths by Israeli forces.
Palestinians have staged a general strike in the West Bank in protest to the Tuesday assassination of three Palestinian youths by Israeli forces.
Following the announcement of a day of mourning, Palestinians staged the general strike across the West Bank on Wednesday.

The official Palestinian WAFA news agency said Palestinian factions, including the Palestinian Fatah Movement and several other Palestinian factions, jointly called for the general strike.
The Palestinian Students' Association and the Palestinian Youth Movement also called for cancelling classes to take part in mourning ceremonies held in commemoration of the martyrs.In a statement, they called for strengthening the resistance against the occupant Israeli forces and the settlers in Palestine.
The general strike was observed in main West Bank cities such as Nablus, Ramallah, Jenin, and Tulkaram.
In a show of unity, several Palestinian factions, including Hamas, Islamic Jihad, and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, condemned the Israeli forces’ targeted killing of the Palestinian youths.
The three youths were assassinated by Israeli Special Forces in what was described as an extrajudicial execution.The incident took place in the al-Makhfeya neighborhood of the city of Nablus.
WAFA news agency reported that the Israeli forces came to the neighborhood with an unmarked civilian vehicle bearing a Palestinian number plate.The Israeli forces then started shooting at another vehicle that was moving nearby.
Three of the youths in the car were killed and a fourth was taken away.
Fatah's military wing, the Al-Aqsa Martyrs’ Brigade, identified the victims as members of the West Bank-based resistance group, naming them as Ibrahim al-Nablusi, Adham Mabrouk, and Muhammed al-Dakhil.
In its statement, the group said it will respond to "blood with blood." 
The killings come amid increased violence across the West Bank in recent months.
Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses: