The Wall Street Consensus 
For the last decade, the G20, the IMF, the World Bank and other multilateral development banks, (including the African Development Bank), and national development agencies (including the French Development Agency, the AFD) have pursued a new development agenda focused on a “grand bargain” with private finance: the Wall Street Consensus.

Its logic is powerful.]]

The global portfolio glut – the trillions managed by institutional investors, mostly from the Global North – could finance the Sustainable Development Goals, given the assumption of scarce public resources in the Global South.]]

For instance, the World Bank’s Maximising  Finance for Development agenda, introduced in 2017, promises institutional investors $12 trillion in market opportunities in the “WHITE sectors” – Welfare, Health, Infrastructure, Transportation, Education.]]

But institutional investors are governed by specific investment rules that need to be accommodated if they are to finance development.

The urgent development question then becomes: how to ‘escort’ institutional investors (pension funds, insurance companies, investment funds) and their asset managers towards these opportunities?   ]]
One intuitive answer could be: investors could buy more government bonds issued by African countries, in local currency to avoid the well-known problems of foreign debt sustainability, who in turn would use cheaper financing conditions to invest heavily in ‘education, digital, health and green’ public services, just like the champion of the Afro-Europe axis envisages for Europe.

But this is not the correct answer.

 
Rather, private investors want ‘investible’ or ‘bankable’ development projects.]]




‘When thinking about whether a project is bankable, the first thing Multilateral Development Banks should be asking themselves is “will people pay to use it?” Investors are far more confident in returns when projects have a built-in  set  of  users  who  are  willing  to  pay’ .

 This logic, neatly outlined by the Inter-American Development Bank, is echoed by all other multilateral development banks.

It signals that the Wall Street Consensus is a project to reduce direct public investments in, and public delivery of services, and instead shift them to the private sector.

The wrapping of the Washington Consensus privatisation agenda has changed, but the substance remains the same: citizens pay user fees for public services, now built and delivered via public-private partnerships (PPPs).]]

 
But the great ambition of the Wall Street Consensus is not simply a Thatcherite privatization onslaught.

 It is rather to transform the state, to reduce statecraft to derisking investments for global financiers.]]

Where citizens cannot (afford to) pay, the state steps in and compensates investors, it ‘derisks’ development projects to ensure investors receive a steady cash flow.

A bankable project is one where the state commits to put a safety net under investors.




And the COVID19 pandemic has renewed the political momentum behind this ambition.

As the July 2020 manifesto  of the Global Investors for Sustainable Development Alliance, working under the auspices of the United Nations, described their vision of the response to the COVID19 pandemic:  “[T]he scale of the challenge calls for reinvigorating PPPs to a degree not experienced since World War II – and a degree that has perhaps never been seen in peacetime” .]]

Similarly, the UN Climate Change conference (COP26) stream on private finance calls  for ‘bespoke solutions’ for developing countries that include ‘public‐private partnerships, pipelines of bankable projects, and new market structures, to facilitate commercially viable opportunities for sustainable investment’.]]




The World Bank’s “PPP Imperative”  for Africa, it would appear, just got more pressing.

 