The depraved, barbaric assassination of Moammar Gadhafi and the destruction of Libya in 2011 is a crime that left Africa reeling.” ]]
An April 2, 2011 State Department memo frankly and bluntly states.]]

“[Libya’s 143 tons of gold] was accumulated prior to the current rebellion and was intended to be used to establish a pan-African currency based on the Libyan golden Dinar.

This plan was designed to provide the Francophone African Countries with an alternative to the French franc…”  
The memo goes on to explain: “French intelligence officers discovered this plan [for a pan-African currency] shortly after the current rebellion began, and this was one of the factors that influenced President Nicolas Sarkozy’s decision to commit France to the attack on Libya.” ]] 
The explanation doesn’t stop there: “According to these individuals Sarkozy’s plans are driven by the following issues: a) A desire to gain a greater share of Libya oil production; b) Increase French influence in North Africa, c) Improve his internal political situation in France, d) Provide the French military with an opportunity to reassert its position in the world, e) Address the concern of his advisors over [Gadhafi’s] long term plans to supplant France as the dominant power in Francophone Africa.” 

In more recent years, French military efforts in the Sahel region have failed to defeat the forces they have been fighting, and this along with French opposition to decisions by African governments in the region to talk with these groups have played a role in the decision to cut and run.]]

French troops have had a substantial presence in Chad, Mali, Niger, Mauritania and Burkina Faso for years.

Yet, these military operations have succeeded only in increasing the number of violent attacks.




“French military efforts in the Sahel region have failed to defeat the forces they have been fighting.” 
When African governments decided to negotiate truces and begin a dialogue with those forces, President Macron declared France would cease collaboration with countries that “decide to negotiate with groups that…shoot at our children.”

 However, studies show that in regions where truces are in effect, there have been dramatic decreases in the number of deaths.]]

In one region civilian deaths decreased from 65 in the first quarter of 2020 to 26 in the first quarter of 2021. In the Sahel they dropped from 487 to 191, and in still another region they dropped from 66 to zero.]]




These results demonstrate yet again that the longstanding imperialists’ efforts to shoot and bomb their way into domination of devastated regions is a manifestation of clueless arrogance and a failure to consider Africa’s realities.

When neo-colonial African governments fail to meet the most basic needs of their people, the way is clear for so-called terrorists to win the support of the people both by presenting themselves as opponents of neglectful or oppressive governments, and by also helping the people survive.]]

When imperialist military forces engage in combat and cause civilian deaths, the support for the so-called terrorists grows.

So-called terrorist organizations are not what Africa needs for its revolution, but for some desperate, oppressed people attempting to resist neo-colonialism and imperialism, such groups may appear to be the only game in town.]]

 
While France may be scaling down its military operations, it is not removing all its troops, and the country’s interest in Africa has not evaporated.

Macron has explained his plan to encourage greater military engagement by its toady, the United States of America and other imperialist and neo-colonial forces.

In true cowardly style, France hopes to hide within an imperialist coalition to do its dirty work in Africa.

Consequently, Africa is still faced with the challenge of overcoming foreign military intervention.]]