In a sombre tone, the IMF’s 2019 report on Fiscal Transparency in Senegal  points to the hidden costs of ‘development as derisking’ the 14 PPP projects initiated since 2008:  
The dearth of information regarding the obligations taken on by the public sector in connection with PPP contracts contributes to the creation of significant fiscal risks.

The size of the projects, the possibility that contracts will be renegotiated and the creation of long-term liabilities (extending, for example, over 25 or 30 years) may heavily impact public finances.]]

The lack of consolidated monitoring of these liabilities prevents any accurate assessment of the risks involved, which may be exacerbated by extensive recourse to unsolicited private sector bids (more than one third of the PPPs since 2008).




Another largely overlooked, but important concern for investors is to shift currency risk to the state.

Take the French asset manager Meridiam, one of the first  Strategic Partners of the General Secretary for the 2020 Africa-France Summit (postponed to next year due to the pandemic).

Its Meridiam Infrastructure Africa fund, with over EUR 500 million in assets, includes a hospital in Ivory Coast, toll highways in Kenya, and renewable energy projects in Senegal, Ethiopia, Nigeria and Ivory Coast, run as PPP projects.

Its CEO, Thierry Deau, recently applauded  a ‘major cultural shift towards a broader derisking philosophy’ to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and noted that the success of its Africa infrastructure fund in part reflected its ability to create strategic partnerships with African governments so that : ]]“we benefit in the contract with the authorities from a strong currency risk protection reinforced by a political risk insurance coverage in case the government does not meet its commitment.

 Eventually, this provides a very robust protection.” Such currency derisking is ubiquitous in PPP contracts across Africa, to ensure that the profits of private groups managing PPP infrastructure, to the extent that they are made in local currency, can be converted into dollars or euros and repatriated at a pre-agreed exchange rate.

While sometimes partly covered by development finance institutions, currency derisking often requires governments, often through their national development banks, to compensate private investors should exchange rates fall, adding to the long list of contingent commitments that the turn to ‘development as derisking’ creates for the state.

This further adds to pressures on local currencies, particularly for countries with trade balances structurally in deficit.]]



The arrangements for currency derisking have deep colonial roots.

The CFA franc, as a colonial currency arrangement , has served since its creation in 1945 as a derisking tool for the operation of French capital in Africa.

It eliminates foreign exchange risk through its fixed peg to the French currency, and gives the French Treasury the power to influence the monetary and exchange rate policies of BCEAO and BEAC – respectively the central banks of the West and Central African monetary unions.]]

Both have the obligation to deposit at least half of their foreign exchange reserves at one of the French Treasury’s special accounts, at least until Macron and Ouattara 2019 announcement to terminate  that practice becomes reality.

While the CFA franc’s derisking function for French businesses has been publicly documented since the 1970 , the growing protests against this colonial relic , and perhaps more importantly, its failure to contain France’s commercial and financial decline in its African sphere of influence has required the adaptation of derisking strategies to the current global discourse of leveraging private finance for development.