A life once filled with hope 
Israa’s life was once filled with hope.She worked in a nursing home and was a second-year student studying special education at Al-Ahliyya College in Jerusalem.She often dressed up as a clown at the Augusta Victoria Hospital in Jerusalem — putting a smile on the faces of sick children.
“Israa is a very powerful woman.She was doing a comedy show for kids and old people, so it’s very hurtful when we see her now,” Mona said.“But for me, nothing has changed because I love the soul of Israa.I don’t love her because of how she looked.” 
Israa’s face is scarred.Her nose has a gaping hole.Her fingers are reduced to stubs.Her injuries have left her helpless, needing to rely on other prisoners to dress, eat and use the bathroom.
Motasem saw his mother last month.Israa’s sister, Batul Jaabis, last saw her in May.While the trip to and from Damon Prison takes around 12 hours, family visits only last 40-45 minutes.
“It’s a very hard feeling to see someone behind the glass, that you can’t hug or talk to that much,” Batul said.“We watch how she speaks, how she breathes, how she does everything because we just love her so much.” 
Motasem wasn’t able to see his mom for the first year and a half that she was incarcerated.Before the accident, Israa was trying to get him a Jerusalem ID because she has one.After her arrest, that request was denied and he was no longer allowed to visit his mother.Motasem was finally granted permission to see his mom but then, three years into Israa’s sentence, he was again denied visits.He was eventually able to see her more regularly when he received a West Bank ID.
“It’s the same as every time,” Motasem said, referring to his August visit.“I miss hugging her, I just miss her so much.Even when we meet her, the glass is not that clean, so you can’t properly see the person who’s sitting in front of you.And the headphones aren’t that clear.It’s not a clear voice.You can’t hear very well.” 
“I miss the time when I would come home from school and hug her and she’d do some comedy for me,” Motasem continued.Now, Motasem said, being without his mom is a feeling that cannot be described.
Feature photo | Protesters hold a Palestinian flag and a placard of prisoner Israa Jaabis, who suffers from severe burns and is fighting for medical treatment, during a protest in support of Palestinian prisoners at the Dome of the Rock Mosque in the Al Aqsa Mosque compound in in the Old City of Jerusalem, Sept.10, 2021. Mahmoud Illean | AP 
Jessica Buxbaum is a Jerusalem-based journalist for MintPress News covering Palestine, Israel, and Syria.Her work has been featured in Middle East Eye, The New Arab and Gulf News.