A new report says Saudi Arabia launched a stealth campaign to shut down a UN investigation of war crimes in Yemen, using "incentives and threats." 
The Guardian cited political officials and diplomatic and activist sources with close knowledge of the issue as saying the Saudis launched a stealth campaign in which they appear to have influenced officials in order to guarantee the end of the investigation.]]




One of the sources said Saudi Arabia had used “threats and incentives” to deter members of the UN human rights council (HRC) from voting for a resolution in October that would extend the mandate of independent investigators by another two years.]]




According to the Guardian, Riyadh allegedly threatened Indonesia that its people would face obstacles to travel to Mecca if officials did not vote against the resolution, while the kingdom offered Togo financial support to persuade the African nation to vote against renewing the mandate.




At the time of the vote, Togo declared that it would open a new embassy in Saudi Arabia, and receive financial aid from Riyadh to support anti-terrorism activities.




Indonesia and Togo, which voted against the measure this year, had abstained from the Yemen resolution in 2020.




One observer said the alleged threat to Jakarta to bar Indonesians from traveling to Mecca showed Saudis were willing to “instrumentalize” their access to a holy place.




The measure --which was passed by a vote of 22-12 in 2020, with 12 abstentions -- was defeated by a majority of 21-18 last month, with seven member countries abstaining.




“That kind of swing – from 12 no’s to 21 – does not just happen,” said one official.




The four members of the council who served both in 2020 and 2021 and changed their votes from abstaining to opposing the resolution also include Bangladesh and Senegal.




According to the Guardian, the UAE, an ally of Riyadh and member of the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen, invited Senegal to sign a memorandum of understanding to establish a joint Emirati-Senegalese business council, one week after the vote.




The HRC set up the Group of Eminent Experts on Yemen (GEE) in 2017 with the aim of conducting an investigation of possible violations of humanitarian law and human rights in Yemen.