The United States government is playing a key role in organizing, promoting and amplifying upcoming nationwide protests in Cuba planned for November 15.When directly challenged at a press conference as to whether the United States is directly involved in the planning of the overthrow of the Cuban government, State Department spokesperson Ned Price refused to deny it, instead twice giving long statements about how much the U.S.supports the protests’ demands — responses that skeptical readers might consider tantamount to a “yes”.]]“The United States remains deeply committed to the Cuban people[‘s]…struggle to freely choose their leadership and their future,” Price added later in a press release.A week later, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs Juan Gonzalez went even further, announcing that the U.S.government would sanction Cuba if it attempted to interfere with the protests.]]“We are totally committed to supporting, maintaining and strengthening the voice of the Cuban people who want a change,” he added.Other American officials have been putting out a flurry of statements in support of the upcoming demonstrations.“The U.S.shares the vision of the Cuban people: democracy, prosperity, and human rights.We support their right to peacefully assemble on November 15 and call on the Cuban government to allow free expression and listen to the people.Their voices cannot be silenced,” wrote Brian A.Nichols, Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs.As MintPress reported last month, the protests were originally planned for November 20. However, the government’s refusal to grant legal permission for them, coupled with left-wing counter-demonstrations, spurred the movement to bring forward the event by five days.]]Online anti-government spaces — such as the private Facebook group that sparked the July demonstrations that caught world media attention — are eagerly anticipating the movement as another opportunity to put pressure on, or even overthrow, the government of Miguel Diaz Canel.However, sources MintPress spoke to inside Cuba suggested that it was the very spontaneity of the July protests that was the key to their success, and that tipping off Cuban authorities weeks in advance was a self-defeating idea, allowing government forces to neutralize many of the movement’s leaders long before anything starts.    Private Facebook Group that Organized the July Protests in Cuba Plans Bigger Ones Soon.           