A key institution of the U.S.foreign policy establishment is the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR).Its role and importance are analyzed in the book “Wall Street’s Think Tank.” CFR reports and publications, including Foreign Affairs magazine, which together gives a good picture of America’s key foreign policy priorities and debates, consistently reflect open hostility to the Nicaraguan government.One important example is an article by Elliott Abrams.Abrams has been a major foreign policy official for four decades.He was once convicted of lying to Congress yet is a Senior Fellow at the CFR.In September 2015, he wrote an article published at CFR titled “The Sandinistas Attack the Miskito Indians – Again.” He ends the piece with an appeal to environmental and human-rights groups:    The open question is whether anyone – groups defending the environment, or defending Indian rights or human rights more generally, or fighting against Sandinista repression – will help them [the Miskito].    Seemingly in response to Abrams’ suggestion, several major foundations have financed reporting on Nicaragua, emphasizing conflict and tensions in the indigenous Miskito zone.In March 2017, a Guardian article funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation lamented, “Lush Heartlands of Nicaragua’s Miskito people spark deadly land disputes.” In the fall of 2018, the Oakland Institute received a grant of $237,294 for the “Land Dispute Project – Nicaragua” from the Howard G.Buffett Foundation.This year, Oakland Institute published “Nicaragua’s Failed Revolution.” The report’s subtitle is “The Indigenous Struggle for Saneamiento,” with “Sacramento” being the final step in regaining indigenous rights.The funding for these reports came from foundations where key players are interconnected with the foreign policy establishment.For example, Howard W.Buffett, the former executive director at the Howard G.Buffett Foundation, is a member of CFR; Melinda Gates, the co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), is a writer for CFR publications and speaker at CFR events.