The Green Party in the U.S.is also a pro-peace party -- but that's no longer the case in Germany.
Ann Garrison: Diana, the German Greens are leading in the polls, heading into Germany's federal elections in September.So Chancellor Angela Merkel may even be replaced by the Greens’ candidate Annalena Baerbock.However, the last time I looked, the German Greens were calling for a rewrite of the UN Charter to take away Russia and China's power to veto wars proposed by the US and its European allies on the UN Security Council.
Diana Johnstone: Yes, you're right about that.And a lot of other things too.I’m sorry to be the bearer of bad news to the American Greens, but if they haven’t been following the evolution of Greens in Europe, especially Germany, they are in for an unpleasant surprise.The Greens are now practically the most warlike party in Europe.They have completely adopted the faux human rights rejection of Russia and China, and If this particular Green candidate should actually become the next German Chancellor, she's likely to be much worse than Angela Merkel or Armin Laschet, the Christian Democratic Union candidate.
AG: Explain the role that the Nordstream-2 natural gas pipeline  under construction between Russia and Germany is playing in this.
DJ: The Nordstream-2 pipeline is really a symbol of the whole problem.Normally Russia and Germany are a natural fit for economic relations because Russia has a lot of resources and Germany has a lot of technology.It's a natural fit for them to trade with each other.And the Nordstream-2 Pipeline would provide Germany and other countries in Western Europe with natural gas at low rates. 
At the present, having given up nuclear power, Germany uses a lot of coal, which is very bad for the environment.The natural gas would actually be better for the environment and for a good price.But the United States is absolutely determined to block this because they say it will give Russia influence over Germany, which is quite a joke, considering the massive influence that the United States wields with its trade and its NATO influence on every possible level, including levels you don't even see. 
And one of those levels is of course, choosing Europe's political leaders.These young leaders programs at various institutes pick out who will be a young leader of tomorrow for Europe, then bring them to the States and indoctrinate them.And lo and behold, these people become European leaders.This young woman now leading the German Greens, who has seen an astonishingly rapid rise to the top of the German Green Party, is precisely one of these young leaders whom the US foreign policy establishment has more or less trained for the job.