Executive summary This Chapter describes two rather different options for carbon dioxide (CO2 ) storage: (i) the fixation of CO2  in the form of inorganic carbonates, also known as ‘mineral carbonation’ or ‘mineral sequestration’, and (ii) the industrial utilization of CO2 as a technical fluid or as feedstock for carbon containing chemicals.In the case of mineral carbonation (see Section 7.2), captured CO2 is reacted with metal-oxide bearing materials, thus forming the corresponding carbonates and a solid byproduct, silica for example.Natural silicate minerals can be used in artificial processes that mimic natural weathering phenomena, but also alkaline industrial wastes can be considered.The products of mineral carbonation are naturally occurring stable solids that would provide storage capacity on a geological time scale.Moreover,magnesiumandcalciumsilicatedeposits are sufficient to fix the CO2  that could be produced from the combustion of all fossil fuels resources.To fix a tonne of CO2 requires about 1.6 to 3.7 tonnes of rock.From a thermodynamic viewpoint, inorganic carbonates represent a lower energy state than CO2 ; hence the carbonation reaction is exothermic and can theoretically yield energy.However, the kinetics of natural mineral carbonation is slow; hence all currently implemented processes require energy intensive preparation of the solid reactants to achieve affordable conversion rates and/or additives that must be regenerated and recycled using external energy sources.The resulting carbonated solids must be stored at an environmentally suitable location.The technology is still in the development stage and is not yet ready for implementation.The best case studied so far is the wet carbonation of the natural silicate olivine, which costs between 50 and 100 US$/tCO2  stored and translates into a 30-50% energy penalty on the original power plant.When accounting for the 10-40% energy penalty in the capture plant as well, a full CCS system with mineral carbonation would need 60-180% more energy than a power plant with equivalent output without CCS.