The key allegations in the “Conflict Beef” story are untrue.The beef for export comes from cattle that are not from the indigenous zones.The cattle are individually tagged and regulated by the national IPSA (Institute for Agricultural Protection and Health), which the U.S.Dept of Agriculture, in turn, audits.Nicaraguans are currently in discussion with European regulators in preparation for export there.A recent video from one of the Nicaraguan beef producers gives a sense of their professionalism.
Even the introduction of the PBS video rings with falsehood.It sensationally claims that a young Miskito girl was shot in the face by someone “sending a message” to the community.The girl was accidentally shot while playing with another youth who had his father’s gun.This was confirmed by the president of the local indigenous community, who knows the girl’s family.The girl survived the incident, and the family allegedly accepted a bribe to fabricate the story.
The report also claimed that “dozens of armed men attacked another Indigenous village in northeast Nicaragua, killing four people in the Mayangna community.” A version of this same story was repeated twice in the Oakland Institute report and sent by Cunningham (via CEJUDHCAN) to the United Nations Human Rights Council, which dutifully issued a press release.This despite the fact the claims were quickly exposed as false by the president of the Mayangna indigenous community.Yet, the media quickly jumped on the story, reportedly after two phone calls from individuals and with no verification.
The PBS story about “conflict beef” reveals how big foundations influence reports that promote the U.S.foreign policy goals for Nicaragua: to defame and economically punish those who are too independent.When a government is targeted by Washington, as the Sandinista government clearly is, the media attitude seems to be “guilty until proven innocent.” 
Feature photo | A man sells cuts off beef and other meat at a public market in Cenral America.Arnulfo Franco | AP 
Rick Sterling is a journalist based in the SF Bay Area.He can be reached at 