US sanctions Venezuela for being sovereign 
Stansfield Smith of Chicago ALBA Solidarity commented that the Saab case is part of a larger U.S.effort to use “lawfare” to impose its illegal sanctions, which the United Nations condemns as “unilateral coercive measures.” The U.S.employs sanctions to discipline countries that attempt to develop independently of its dominion.
The U.S.can extend its imperial reach through its domination of the international financial system, which is U.S.dollar-denominated and mediated through the monetary exchange known as SWIFT.Smith explained that Washington could demand that banks in foreign countries accept U.S.restrictions or face sanctions themselves by controlling the international financial system.
Venezuela’s resistance to U.S.interference, starting with Hugo Chávez’s Bolivarian Revolution two decades ago, has been punished by the U.S.with mounting sanctions so extreme that they now amount to an asphyxiating blockade, causing severe shortages of food and medicine.William Camacaro of the Alberto Lovera Bolivarian Circle attested to the impact on the people of Venezuela.In effect, this U.S.effort to achieve regime change is collective punishment to coerce the Venezuelans to reject their elected government.
Even a report from the U.S.government readily admits that “sanctions, particularly on the state oil company in 2019, likely contributed to the steeper decline of the Venezuelan economy.” This crippling blow to its oil industry has impacted Venezuela’s capability to generate electricity, conduct agriculture, and generate income from oil sales to fund social programs and import vital necessities, all of which have negatively impacted the lives of ordinary Venezuelans.
Once a leading oil exporter, Venezuela’s ability to import equipment components for its oil refineries and light oil to mix with its heavy crude has been cut off by the U.S., devastating its productive capacity.The U.S.has even blocked international oil-for-food swaps by Venezuela.